Welcome back to The Art of
Accomplishment, where we explore living
the life you want with enjoyment and
ease. Today's episode is a really
special one. Joe joined Dr. K on Charlie
Hoopert's podcast, Charisma on Command,
where they talked about authenticity and
what charisma really is. This is a
really fun one, and there's a lot of
gems in it, so I wanted to release it on
our own podcast as well. And I really
hope you enjoy it.
>> Joe All, wonderful to have both of you
guys here.
>> I'm thrilled to be here, man. This is
like super exciting.
>> Thank you guys. Thank you guys.
>> So, I have spent 20 years trying to
figure out charisma and there's only a
few people that I would genuinely ask
this question to. So, I'm I'm very
excited to do it. How is it that you
guys understand charisma? Do you see it
primarily as behaviors, mindsets,
something else?
>> You want to kick things off?
>> Yeah. Um, I I make a distinction when I
think about charisma is there's two
forms of charisma. There's the form of
charisma that is I have learned a set of
behaviors that allow people to
um like me be convinced by me. I think u
typically that's I would call it like a
slimy form of charisma.
>> Okay.
>> Um and and the thing about it the
notable thing about it is that it
>> it doesn't last very long. like that
kind of charisma can can hold in a
relationship for you know maybe 3 to 6
months and then
>> at best maybe just this the length of a
car sales you know like some somewhere
in there
>> and then there's the a form of charisma
that is
just basically uh I would call it au
authenticity and aliveness
>> where there's somebody who is so deeply
on their purpose being themselves and
full of aliveness where they're not
restricting parts of themselves and then
that's an incredibly
something that draws people in deeply.
>> I think the the first one comes because
you want something like power. You want
people to like you. You want people to
love you. You're trying to fill a hole.
The other one comes because you have
learned how to love yourself and all
aspects of yourself. And so that that's
how I think I don't think about it as
one thing in modern. I think about it as
two.
>> I I think the first part of my journey
was very much what you might have
described as the slimy format. Do you
have a similar understanding of it? Do
you see it as
>> Yeah. So, one one thing I love about Joe
is that it blows my mind how he
understands
so much about the things that I have
formerly trained in.
>> So like the way I'd answer that question
so two or three different things. So I I
tried to understand this myself like
what is charisma? So the first thing
that I sort of realized from psychiatric
training is that we think about charisma
as if it's within you, right? Like
charisma is an attribute of a person.
But fundamentally, how do you if you're
on a desert island by yourself, can you
be charismatic?
>> And so the first thing to understand
that I think most people miss is that
charisma is a diatic interaction. It is
about a response of something that you
do that happens in the other person. So
no mastery of charisma will be complete
until you recognize that there is
something in the other person that needs
to be activated.
>> Now the question becomes how do you go
about activating it? So this is where I
think there's several layers to it.
Right? So we have like you know uh and
this is what's so fascinating about the
research on charisma is it's so
multiddisiplinary. You have studies from
leadership, management, business like
Harvard Business School kind of stuff.
Then you have stuff about basic
psychology. you have stuff about
neuroscience and then you even have um
charisma research from anthropology and
history. So people will look at like
people like Rasputin and try to ask
themselves how is this person so
charismatic right and which what cuz
like he kind of has this bad reputation
but is that sleazy but it absolutely
withtood the test of time so I think
that the way I think about charisma is
in like all of those dimensions and when
I work with people it's like working on
okay let's understand what are the
variables that make a leadership
successful how do you cultivate those on
a personal from a personal standpoint
point what's going on in the brain and
then how do you connect to this deeper
kind of charisma that like Joe is
talking about right that is not about
the other person that really comes and
flows from within you
>> wow I love both of those is it go ahead
>> yeah to geek out a little bit more
there's there's another interesting
thing about charisma people thinking
they don't have it or they do have it so
just as like a internal experiment most
humans have a critical voice in their
head repetitive
negative selft talk
that part of you is super charismatic
for most people for the beginning of
their life meaning that most people
listen to that and they're like yeah
uh-huh I'm on yes yes yes I should lose
weight yes yes I I should be a nicer
person yeah I d so there's a
relationship that we have with ourselves
where there is some part of us that we
are in a comma charismatic relationship
with
>> and so that's a really interesting thing
to think about when someone's saying oh
I want to be charismatic There's an
interesting thought process like well
what's the part of you that is
charismatic and what's the part of you
that's just following along going yeah
yeah yeah yeah
>> listening to it. So it's an it's an
interesting it's an interesting thing to
see that there is that charismatic
nature in all of us.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's a very direct experience of
being able to see it. I I feel like I've
noticed that growing up that the things
that you're you're a middle schooler and
the thing that make the girl like you is
ignoring her and running away from her
and teasing her or being mean to her.
And so I as I look back it's I wonder if
that's a projection of like the things
that are charismatic early in our life
are the parts of ourselves that are not
forthcoming and open and kind to
ourselves. And uh for me, I see that
some of those early behaviors that I
learned were like if somebody asks you
to do them a favor, make sure that you
don't just do it and roll over like
you're, you know, you're you work for
them or something like that. And so I'm
curious is is there stages where it
looks tends to look different inter
interactively
between different people based on life
stage or how should people even go about
learning this if it's something that has
so many different ways of being
expressed and uh types of it almost.
>> Yeah. So I I think um the way that I
would I approach this is like let's look
at like the basic research like what is
the best body of research that tells us
what charisma is. The problem with that
kind of research is if you say like
authenticity which is a huge part of the
charisma equation.
Telling you what charisma is is not the
same as developing it. Right. One is
like what it is like so like how do you
be successful in life? You you can you
can ask someone that question and they
can say be rich.
>> Mhm. that doesn't give you like a
method. So, so kind of my approach is
what are the things that actually
contribute to charisma and then what is
the mechanism of attaining those things.
>> So, my understanding of it is like a
couple of big variables float to the
surface. The first is having a vision.
>> Mhm.
>> So, if you sort of think about like who
in your life is charismatic, they have
an idea of where they're going. That's
like a very huge thing. Second thing is
um the ability to deal with setbacks
with some degree of like equinimity and
resilience. So when we think about and
this is mostly from like the leadership
research we think about what makes a
leader it's like when thing go when when
things go bad who do you turn to right
who can handle problems and that's where
like the vision and the ability to be
resilient and deal with setbacks is
huge. Um the third really really
concrete thing is uh good with words. So
this is where we go like a little bit
you know theoretical for a second but
how do we know whether a human being is
competent or not? So competency in most
human beings comes from like their mind,
right? So the way that they think like
if we look at like the mo what separates
human beings from animals, it's our mind
and what how does one human being
understand the quality of another human
being's mind and that is through speech
usually.
>> So this is why like in the field of
psychiatry we had Freud who's trying to
figure out what is going on in someone's
mind and what does he do? He listens to
them. So, how do you know about the
people in your life? How do you change
the minds of of the people that you work
with? Um, you know, you use the power of
speech and you use your ears.
>> So, it's basically like some degree of
authenticity. That's the fourth one. So,
authenticity, vision, the ability to
deal with setbacks without getting like
destroyed, and then being articulate
with your words.
>> Those are like the four biggest
variables. And then there's a couple of
variables that are really weird that are
also pretty big, but I think we'll get
to those later.
>> Sure.
>> Yeah. It's a that's a I love that
breakdown. It the two things that come
to mind when I hear it, the the the
first one is that there's a study that
was done gosh I think it was like in the
'9s or something where they had people
come up and speak in front of groups and
then they all said how intelligent they
were
>> and they did not track their
intelligence. Well, they tracked how
well they spoke. So basically, if you
speak well, we think you're intelligent.
Even though that may not be the case at
all. They're not actually correlated.
Wow.
>> Or they're not highly correlated. So So
that that's one thing that's really
interesting. So there is an articulation
that especially in the short term really
helps you helps you uh uh convince
people that you're you know you that you
should be somebody should be followed or
somebody who's smart. The other piece
that came to mind as you were speaking
about this is and I don't know any
research on this but I just know the
practicality of it which is
people
often are found charismatic by the way
they listen and I don't know where that
is in the in the research but meaning I
think there's like something famous
where there was Miss Roosevelt or
something like that had two prime
ministers of England this story that
you've heard Uh and one was like he was
the smartest man in the world and the
other prime minister said to her she
said about him I felt like I was the
smartest woman in the world. What I
notic is that
>> just listening and the way that you
listen and how openhearted you're
listening and how accepting you are and
the questions you ask often
>> is like a very charismatic thing both in
leadership and and otherwise. And
>> I think it's a missed part because we're
usually going I'm going to go into a
meeting. How am I going to say the thing
that I want to say? We're not saying,
"Oh, I'm going to the meeting. How am I
going to listen?"
>> But the way that you listen actually has
as much, if not more, power of what you
get out of that meeting and what people
think of you.
>> Is that age dependent? Cuz you said
people miss this. I didn't make a video
on listening for about six years.
>> Right. And I would say I still had a
magnetism into people. So I was very
focused on what I was saying, how people
understand what I was saying. As I get
older, I notice that shift. Is that
something that is age or stage dependent
as people get into it? What do you think
of that? Cuz it seems like such a
glaring omission, but at the time it
didn't seem like a glaring omission.
I
>> I mean I I I don't think it's age
dependent dependent. I do think it is in
a sense stage dependent.
>> Okay.
>> Right. So I think if we if we talk about
you know I love Joe's like very
practical framework of like there's the
sleazy kind and then there's like this
deep thing. And the other variable that
I was alluding to, by the way, is one
study looked at very charismatic people
and basically found a variable which is
like divinity.
>> So if you look at like Joon of Arc and
Jesus and the Buddha and Rasputin, some
of the most charismatic people in the
history of humanity are like spiritual
people.
>> So I I think that if we sort of look at
like some of these surface level things
and I think listening is a great example
of something that cuts across the
research, right? So there's a mo there's
a a certain amount of authenticity that
is related to empathy that is related to
listening. When you truly listen to
people, what you articulate back to
them, right, sounds so intelligent. So I
think like listening is this beautiful
kind of like thing that that allows it's
kind of like an amp it lets you check a
lot of boxes.
>> Mhm. And I think basically you can start
with some of these like skill kind of
things but I think the real charisma
like this transformative worldshaping
charisma which each and every one of us
have in order to unearth that like I
think listening is is one step along
that process and there's there's a very
interesting mechanism which we can get
into but I think we'll get into that.
>> Would love to.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Let's talk about unearthing
it. I think I think as far as your
stages go, I what I notice is that uh
listening doesn't happen until you stop
having something to prove.
>> So
yeah. So that that's that I think and
which is again being in love with
yourself or accepting yourself. The more
you're accepting yourself, then these
other things unravel
>> in you.
>> Good. I feel like I have a really
because I've been trying to understand
the way that you guys say it in my own.
feel like I have a good sense of it. So
what is this process for unearthing it
for developing these vision the ability
to speak articulated to listen well how
would you guys advise people to go about
taking their first steps assuming that
they're my audience is often like from
young 20s to upper 30s if that's that
typical stage of life. So I I think
maybe what I can do is talk about the
four variables that I mentioned and then
I think the real conversation is going
to be getting to that true charisma. And
so I kind of want to like finish that
off and get into this discussion of
>> loving yourself which is still confusing
to me by the way. So I'd love to hear
what you have to say.
>> Right. So the first thing is a vision.
So I I think a lot of people
>> if you look at like their direction in
life like they sort of don't have a
direction. So, we're we're in a society
where our senses our senses are
bombarded by what we should do. There's
like Instagram influencers and like
YouTubers and like everyone's like
telling you what you should do, what you
should be. Social media has an effect on
our ego which is very bad, right? So, it
makes us self-conscious. It makes us
more depressed. It makes us more
anxious. So, literally what these
algorithms have figured out how to do is
make you feel bad about yourself and
then sell you an answer. M
>> the problem is that there's a thousand
answers for everything that you feel bad
about. So the the first thing is that's
there's no vision there, right? There's
no unifying thing. You're always trying
to solve a problem. Love the way that
Joe put it. You're trying to fix
something within yourself, but that's
not a vision for your life that's trying
to like fix this today and fix this
tomorrow. So you kind of have to do some
internal work, which I think we're going
to get to, and really develop like what
you want from your life. And the only
way you're going to find that is from
you. And then once you have a path, once
you have a plan, then people will like
literally gravitate towards you because
you're one of the few people who seems
like they've got a clue because everyone
we have a loneliness epidemic, we have a
mental health epidemic, you know, so
that then the moment that you become
this thing, people just start like
showing up.
>> So that's I think a big part of that
vision. I think articulation is really
um actually simple. So what I strongly
recommend people do is anything that
you're going to talk about, you write
first.
>> So there are a couple of cool
neuroscience mechanisms there where when
you write, the first thing that it does
is it slows down the speed of your
thoughts, which helps them like gel a
little bit more. You think faster than
you speak. So a big part of speaking
well is like slowing down your thoughts.
The other really cool thing about
writing is when you write something, it
activates your sensory input, right?
because you're reading what you're
writing and the moment you activate your
sensory input whatever you're writing
sinks into your brain and you learn it
now once you know something then when
you open your mouth it sounds really
good
>> right so like how do you become more
articulate you literally write it out
and one thing that I didn't really
appreciate so I tried to write a book on
video game addiction and it sucked
>> but then the first time I started
streaming the words came out like really
fluid ly because I had written this
300page awful book, but in the process
of writing it clarified my thoughts.
>> So that's vision, that's articulation.
I'm sure we'll get to like setbacks and
equinimity and things like that because
I think that's going to be kind of like
ego related. Um, so I think those are
like two or three really like two really
big things that people can start with
and then I think there's this deeper
work which will sort of make things I'm
sure like easier as we move on.
>> Yeah. The the only thing I would add
there is if I remember the research
correctly, I think the writing things
out is probably going to work for 70% of
the people. And so
>> so if you're one of those people who've
done that and it doesn't work, then
you're probably an auditory processor.
And so you could probably do it by
speaking it out over like multiple
times. So it's it's depending. But most
people are writers. Yeah.
>> Yeah. And I I love the phrase, some
people think in order to talk and some
people talk in order to think.
>> Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. I'm I'm that
auditory person, which is why I remember
I was sitting at a uh when I was doing a
nonprofit work uh uh helping run this um
this foundation and I was in a meeting
in Cleveland, Ohio. And uh and this
woman just walks up to me. She goes,
"Oh, you don't read, do you? You're
you're an auditory processor." I was
like, "How did you know?" and she and
she described all my behaviors that that
let her know that I was um so as far as
I would say the those are like amazing
practical steps. The the number one
thing that I think to do is really
deeply inquire as to what makes it that
you want to have charisma
>> to really understand that about
yourself.
So typically the way that it works is
once I have this then I can be lovable.
Once I have this then I can be good
enough. once I have this then I will be
happy. And that's the that's the
ultimate con
>> that that the that that we tell
ourselves.
>> And so to recognize that there's nothing
that you actually have to do to to love
yourself or to be loved there. You don't
have to create a certain amount of value
to be. So questioning the problem
itself, questioning the the premise I
think is a really good first step for
the other things that that you know the
the deeper authenticity part of it
because that's going to teach you
exactly the places that you're not
accepting yourself.
>> Mhm.
>> If you start looking at what you're
telling yourself you have to do to be
good enough or lovable or not abandoned
or whatever, that's the places that
you're going to be able to go in and
say, "Oh, these are the parts that are
unloved. This is where I start my work.
>> H
when I look back, if I say, okay, what
might I have asked myself? I think I
need a girlfriend or I need a um this
this particular guy needs to like me or
something like that. What would be the
practical walkthrough of okay, so my my
initial answer is
>> I that girl has to like me in order for
me to like myself. Then then what? And
so what I took is okay, I'm going to
make her like me, right? And
>> so I know what to do now. uh figure out
what she likes, you know, be all of be
all the things that she likes.
>> So Charlie, when you did that, what
happened next?
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> So I s So what I started doing was
watching very carefully. What is she
responding to? What are women in general
responding to? They like guys who play
guitar. I learned to play the guitar,
you know, right? So So just run that
process for about 10 years. And now I'm
doing jiu-jitsu, learning multiple
languages, like trying to be the
Renaissance man that I can, which is
effective in a way. And there was
wonderful secondary tertiary effects of
I love music and I got to do that. And I
didn't at that beginning stage get to
the the self-love and the
self-acceptance. So I'm curious how
someone might run through that in a way
that as that is cleaner than than what I
did perhaps.
>> Hold on a second. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah.
Go ahead. Go ahead. You got to take it.
I I'm assuming I think we're going the
same place.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's like and then you got
the woman but it didn't
>> Right. So that's what exactly what I
want to hear about. So don't fast
forward to 10 years when you started
doing the deeper work. I want to know
one year in right. So let's let everyone
who's listening to this is like
>> but I think we need to hear
>> when you started getting in shape when
you started playing guitar when you
started making money 2 years in 3 years
in you did get the girl Charlie.
>> Yeah.
>> What happened then?
>> Girls I'm assuming.
>> Yeah. Yeah. No, at first it was Oh god.
I'll just
uh at first I felt like king of the
universe. It was the greatest, most
thrilling, excited thing that I could
ever imagine. I didn't understand why
everyone in the world wasn't quitting
their job to go out to bars and flirt
and receive validation. It made no sense
to me. And uh when I saw, you know, the
occasional 40 or 45year-old at the bar,
I was like, "That guy gets it." Like
that guy, he gets it. um got
girlfriends, had casual encounters, and
then you know the the one that I
definitely had to have after years of
didn't get that girl in high school,
didn't get that girl in college, but I
was 27 and I finally got that one that I
had to have.
Did uh had a intense period of just
wanting her to really like me as much as
possible that lasted many many months.
Um,
and then it became like the biggest ache
in my life. this like trying to make
this relationship work in a way that
felt good for me and for her was I was
still seeking like I was like I still
want to be in a non- monogous open
relationship cuz I need all the
attention from multiple women but I have
to please you as well and I want you to
like me and I as I reflect back on it I
understood my own happiness to be how
much smiles applause and needing is
being directed at me from my primary
partner and other women that I was
casually seeing. Um, and then my hair
started falling out and
you know, like Yeah. So, you know, and
I'm going to te tee this up, I assume,
and you can spike it over the net, Joe,
cuz I I'm pretty sure we're going to go
the same place, but like, so this is
what I see, and it's so challenging
because sometimes people will come to me
and they they come to me and they like
want to be better,
>> right? They want to be accepted. They
want to be loved. And then they think
like, okay, like clearly people respect
dudes who are ripped, dudes who are
rich. Let me be that so I get their
respect.
>> And then they fall into a very dangerous
trap which is that they succeed.
>> Mhm.
>> And then there's this other really this
huge problem arises which is like
basically unsolvable.
Now you love this girl. You're into her.
You're crushing on your on her. You hate
yourself for it. And you feel powerless,
but you want her so bad. So you do
everything that you're supposed to do.
And then she says yes.
>> And then when you go home, you're
wondering, who is she in love with? Who
did she say yes to? Did she say yes to
this crafted version? But what about the
loser that I was before? What if I ever
become that again? What if I start
losing my hair or I start making less
money? So now what you've managed to do
is get exactly what you want, but it's
like a house of cards that could get
wiped away at any time.
>> There's this really scary like fear of
abandonment because you haven't been
accepted.
>> Mhm.
>> Your money has been accepted. Your
appearance has been accepted,
>> you know, and and so like it's so scary.
and doing that work, the deeper work is
like it's such a common pattern where
I'm going to succeed and then I will get
what I want and it really messes me up
even more.
>> Yeah. There so many things I could say
about the the my pathy phrase on this is
um the problem of becoming somebody to
be loved is that you never get loved.
the person that you pretending to be is
the one that gets loved and so it never
fulfills. And that's like the basically
what
what was just said. But the secondary
part is that there's a way to look at
that that says, "Oh, so glad that didn't
work out cuz now I can actually do the
real work." It seems to me that there's
oftentimes this necessary step. For me,
it wasn't about looks or money. For me,
it was about awakening and spiritual
fulfillment. But oh once I get to this
place then
>> and then when you get to that place and
there there's no there there's this
amazing thing because then you have to
like reflect and say oh what is it
actually and then so
so there's a there's a part of human
development which is you don't want
people to walk before they can crawl.
There's a whole bunch of neurological
issues that come from that. And so if if
that's where you've got to go to figure
out that it's completely unfulfilling
you know feel free to go there. There
seems apparently I needed to do it. I'm
sure there's ways
>> I needed to do it too and I think
actually many people do.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> Right. So So many people need to walk to
the end of the road to realize that this
is not working.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
And and then there's a there's a some
people get lost there because they don't
they just can't imagine that there's
something other way to do it because
there's no examples of another way to do
it. And so if you find yourself in that
place, then it's back to how do you love
yourself? How do you love get acceptance
for who you are? And and and when I mean
who you are, I mean all the aspects of
yourself.
>> What I notice is
>> and and a good way to measure it is that
>> the more that I love every aspect of
myself, the more I can love everybody.
>> So if I'm in the world not being able to
love somebody, that's clearly a pointer
of where I'm not accepting myself. when
I'm get triggered that's a clearly a
pointer where I'm not accepting myself
and so so that's where that that's when
that work starts coming into play.
>> So let me let me ask a question that I
know I would have had at 27 because it's
the first leap of improvements in my
life came from seemingly not accepting
myself. There was all of this advice
when I was 13 14 15 just be yourself
just be yourself and like that wasn't
going well for me at the time. And so I
developed this philosophy of I'm not
going to be myself. I'm going to choose
myself. I'm going to decide how I want
to come across, how I want to be, and
I'm going to select that and habituate
certain behaviors and ways of being. And
my conception of myself was this
choosable
thing that there was no essential. It
was completely choicebound. So, I'm
wondering if I'd heard you say you have
to accept yourself at 27, I would have
that I would have been have to.
>> Okay. And great, cuz I would have heard
it that way. For sure. That's why you're
doing that's why the 27y old needs to do
all that stuff because everything is a
should and a have to and a
>> otherwise like there's this the the self
relationship is one of force.
>> So what is the self if not this
collection of chosen behaviors that I
accept?
>> Let's not go into that though
agreed. I think we've got one major step
>> before we can get there.
>> Let's hit it. So, so you know it's maybe
I I can we'll we'll get there. Yeah. So,
so you know it's interesting because I
hear this a lot like especially in like
dating because dating is really hard
right now and people are like oh you
know just be yourself. I think that's
terrible advice.
>> Mhm.
>> So I I I think if we I think the worst
thing you can be is yourself.
>> I I know we don't so looking forward to
cuz I know you get it twist that you're
about to do. I just cannot wait.
>> So, so exactly right. So, and I think
this is going to give us the layer that
we're missing.
>> Okay.
>> So, when someone says, okay, so let me
ask you all, right? So, when someone
says, I should be myself, what do you
think that means to them
to me? I could tell you what it meant. I
should be shy, reserved,
withdrawn, like my video games, um, and
not effective in my communication with
people and have the same small group of
friends that I do. and not more than
that,
>> right? So, I I think when we when most
people say like, you know, like I I hear
all these things like if you can't
handle me at my worst, you don't deserve
me at my best, which in a relationship
is a license to continue to be an
>> Mhm.
>> So, I think most people live this life
where they have all of these internal
tendencies
and what they think and then they fight
against those internal tendencies. So I
feel like being an ass, but I need to be
nice. So there's like this internal
tension and they they think, okay, like
I should be nice. So like this is the
the part of me that I'm going to project
that doesn't work, right? And so instead
what I should do is the layer underneath
like all these raw emotions, all of
these things that are like underneath
that I regulate, that's really who I am.
M
>> but if you sort of look at it like from
a developmental and psychiatric
perspective everything right underneath
what you show the rest of the world
that's what people think myself is right
it's the it's the person that I am it's
the unfiltered thoughts
>> but that is not you right and I think
that's that's the main twist but I I
think this is where like as a
psychiatrist like what are we underneath
what we show we're like a pile of
disorganized attachment styles
mental conditioning like mental
habituation, a lot of internalized
shoulds, halves, whatever, right? So,
when someone says,
you know, if someone can't handle me at
my worst, they don't deserve me at my
best, there's a core like brutal,
unlovable part and they want that
acceptance. And so, it's kind of weird,
but like, you know, I I think that the
parts underneath you kind of need to be
fixed, need to be healed. I'm sure you
don't use the word fixed, but I do.
Right. So, so one of the interesting
things is I I I do think that if you
look at it from like a clinical
perspective, there is a bad way for your
mind to function and there is a good way
for your mind to function. That what
your what you perceive as yourself to be
is actually a pile of like micro traumas
that have built up into something that I
would call ego or a humod. And I think
that's the big missing step. So, a lot
of this like finding authenticity
is about actually getting rid of your
ego.
>> And it's interesting because Joe keeps
on using the word love. I don't know
what that word means.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So, so I I I'm sure we're talking
about the same thing, but that language
has never made like the concept of
self-love. If you ask me today, do I
love myself?
>> I I I don't know what that means. I I
just am,
>> you know, I I don't have a I would even
say like the goal is to not even have a
relationship with yourself because the
moment that you have a relationship with
yourself, a relationship is between two
things. And my path to self-acceptance,
I wouldn't even call it self-acceptance
because that that means that someone is
doing the accepting and something is
being accepted.
>> And that's actually duality. That's
division. That's not the real self.
That's a very subtle form of ego, right?
And I don't know if that makes sense and
we can get into that, right?
>> So, so and just the the word love has
always been confusing to me because I I
don't know like what people mean by
that.
>> Yeah. So, it's interesting. There's
there's two pieces I want to go down. I
want to address that because I see the
se semantics that are
that that can be switched around for us
to to see that we're talking about the
same thing that I think we know we're
talking about the same thing. And then
um but there's one other part that I
want to talk about which is there's a
brilliant design to humanity is what I
noticed and um and it relates here which
is
the first part of it so I call it two
parts right the first part of it is that
uh the feeling that I'm trying to avoid
feeling I'm inviting in exactly the way
that I'm trying to avoid it. So if I
don't want to feel like I'm a loser,
then I am going to do all these things.
Play guitar, da da da, get the girl so I
don't feel like a loser.
>> Mhm.
>> And in that you got to feel like a a
loser, right? So we do when I was when I
was in my 20s, I it was abandonment. I
emotionally abandoned. My dad was an
alcoholic. It was like my mom was an
alenolon. There was just no way I was
going to be emotionally abandoned. So
every time I started to feel that
abandonment, I would do one of two
things.
Yeah, fine.
>> Which clearly made somebody abandon me
or I would become
could you would you please which also
makes people abandon you. And so I was
inviting the thing.
The reason that our our system does that
as far as I can tell is that when we are
when we were younger, we got certain
things set in place that said the micro
traumas which basically said you're not
allowed to feel this thing.
>> Don't feel like a loser. You're not
allowed to feel like a loser. You're not
allowed to feel unloved. If I felt
abandoned by my parents, I'd be like
crap. Like the people who are supposed
to take care of me aren't taking care of
me. it would just that devastation.
Don't feel that.
>> Mhm.
>> And so I'm keep on recreating
circumstances to bring that emotion back
up so that it can finally be welcomed
and loved. And so so for me what that
means is literally if you think about
the love part of it and I don't do it
because I'm supposed to love and accept
myself all as is, though that's exactly
what I'm doing. It's also in using
slightly different language. It's also
the most efficient way I found to heal
those micro traumas, which is micro
traumas generally are here's a whole
bunch of part of you that weren't loved
and accepted and so you have contorted
yourself out of who you are
>> to get the love and acceptance that
never actually fulfills.
>> So, okay, I won't be scared, Mom. I'll
be strong, mom. And that like now that
part of you is unloved and it's in the
background. And so your authenticity in
in my language is all the unloved parts
being able to be there. And so the most
very most effective way and you can't
jump to it. You have to actually there's
some steps but eventually the most
effective way that I notice is to love
the parts of yourself that you are not
accepting. Well and the other word would
be welcoming the parts of yourself that
are accepting. The reason I use love is
because there's a visceral felt sense of
oh I if you think about a puppy or a
niece or a nephew or a child there's a
feeling that you have that you're like
oh that and you there's a softness often
like tears if you really let it in
there's it's like almost of a heartbreak
and and it's like oh I feel that towards
the dog or the kitten or my son or my
daughter.
What is it like to actually turn that
towards myself? What is it like to
actually viscerally sematically go oh
that love towards myself?
>> And
just like essentially you're like
there's nothing wrong with you but there
is but there is these things do need to
be fixed and we'll we'll say that so
that you can have that moment.
Similarly,
there is for what I notice for myself
for a long time and for most people that
I work with, there is two sets two sides
of the self. And this is what I notice
is
this is one of the paths, one of
probably 10 paths that I'm aware of that
allow people to actually get out of
duality into non-duality.
So yeah, we're we're both saying yes,
we'll agree with you that there is a
problem here so that it's a more
effective way to work on it, but
essentially there's not really a problem
>> and and it's very confusing.
>> So So yeah, I know it's confusing. So
like I Yeah, I I think it's clear to me
that Joe and I are on the same page. I
think it's just this is what's so
fascinating. This is what I love about
listening to you talk and watching you
work with people is we're clearly
starting from the same place and we end
up in the same place, but our routes
there are very different.
>> Very different.
>> So, it's interesting cuz and I think we
get and maybe this will make sense, but
so when someone comes into my office and
they're like, "Dr. K, I'm having
problems."
>> And what I'll say is like, "Yeah, bro,
you are having problems." I think this
is the key thing.
>> We can fix them, but it's okay for you
to be flawed.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. It's not that you're not flawed.
I think this is where the the language
of self-acceptance and self-love. I've
just seen it clinically get into bad
places. Yeah.
>> And I think this is something about the
way that you use it. I think you
understand it in a way you see it exist
in a way that I think that when people
say like self love that means letting
the degenerate parts of me run wild,
right? And this could also be like by
virtue of who we work with on average.
And and so I I think where I kind of
come from is like yeah if you're like if
your life is screwed up like I agree
>> let's fix it but it's okay for it to be
screwed up.
>> Right.
>> Right. It like up until this point you
have tried reflexively to fix these
things and and what Joe stumbled into
and this is what really blows my mind is
like I think it was Freud who originally
coined the term like repetition
compulsion. So this is something that is
very very common in in well known in
psychology that we continue and not only
in psychology also in eastern
spirituality but we continue to create
when we try to fix the problems in our
life we just create those problems
>> and and you know Joe offered a really
great example that I'd love to flesh
out. So, I work with a lot of people
with um narcissistic personality
disorder, borderline personality
disorder, sociopathy, and these people
like, you know, in borderline
personality disorder, you have a fear of
abandonment. And so, what happens is
when you're in a relationship with
someone, you're like, "This person is
going to abandon me eventually." And
then they're like, "Charlie, don't
abandon me. Don't go. Don't go. Don't
go." And and because that never gets
satisfied. And you're like, "I'm not
going to abandon you." Like, tell me you
love me, Charlie.
>> Mhm. I do. I do.
>> No. You love me. You love me. You love
me today,
>> but what about tomorrow? And then it's
like, I told you six times. I keep
saying it
>> and and then what happens is that that
right there, right? So, so hopefully
like people see that face, right? And
then people with borderline personality
disorder, they are very sensitive to
faces.
>> Mhm.
>> So, if you're smiling right now and 10%
of your face is actually frowning, which
is really weird, but you can do that,
right? You can tell when the smile
doesn't hit someone's eyes. Someone with
BPD will ignore the 90% of the smile and
they will see the 10% the lack of love
in your eyes. They'll see the
frustration.
>> And so what they end up doing is since
I'm never reassured by you, I'm like,
Charlie, love me. Love me. Love me.
>> And then what I'm going to drew do is
drive you crazy.
>> Yeah.
>> You can't handle it anymore. And then
you're like, I just need a day away from
your anxieties. And then suddenly I've
created the abandonment that I feared.
And each time it happens, the wound gets
deeper and deeper and deeper. And then
I'm hungry for the next person to love
me and hungry for the next person to
love me.
>> And on the eastern side, that's kind of
this weird like cycle of karma
>> that the Buddha sort of talks about,
right? He says like we get trapped in
this cycle of karma. And like the more
that you try to escape like it's like a
Chinese finger trap where like the
harder you pull the way life is which I
I mean I love you Joe but like when
you're like oh the human being is
beautiful. I'm like we're also like
fundamentally flawed and trapped in this
cycle of karma right so many of our
survival reactions and and that's what
happens. You learn like this avoidant
attachment stuff anxious attachment
stuff. I agree. We're beautiful, but
also we're like fundamentally kind of
like the way that we survive our
problems
creates problems for us and it requires
so much work and insight to sort of get
there and and that's why Joe and I have
jobs because
>> you know so it's it's fascinating.
>> Yeah. And it's interesting as you were
talking it's exactly almost the opposite
in my approach which is somebody comes
to me like I have a problem. I'm like,
"Prove it." And they can't.
>> Yeah.
>> So, so like it's it's an interesting
thing, but both work. And it's it's an
interesting
>> what's interesting to me about it is
that if you
there's this thing about uh just the
developmental process that I get really
that I geek out on. But a very
interesting way to think about it is
there was a time in my life where the
word nowadays is agency. But I needed to
know that I could control, that I had
agency, that I was choosing my life,
that life was a choice because I felt
disempowered. I felt oppressed
by my parents, etc. So, I needed to,
yeah, I'm I have a choice. And that
offered me great relief. And the way I
say it now is every epiphany is a rut
waiting to happen. And then just a
little bit later, whatever decade, I
guess, just a little bit later, all of a
sudden that feeling of choice was a
burden to me.
>> Mhm.
>> That to see life as a gift. To see that
every one of my thoughts was not
something that I was choosing. That I
couldn't even choose to stop my
thinking. That every time I had
gratitude, that was a gift. That created
relief in my system. Mhm.
>> And so there is this there is a a time
and a place for
>> for the methodology.
>> Yeah.
>> No matter what it is like it's not about
is it the right thought. It is is that
the useful thought today in this moment.
And there's definitely a time where it
is incredibly useful to say yeah you're
up and that's okay. And there's
also a time that's really useful to say
>> prove it. Prove it. Yeah. Could I share
with you a model that has really helped
me with this? Because I have been
>> the everything is a rut has been so
challenging for me because I was like
I've already tried surrendering. I did
that when I was 15. It didn't go well.
So
>> you can't surrender.
>> We'll get into that.
>> So the the model is I think I think it
comes from Michael Beckwith, but it's
you I'm sure you're familiar like to me,
by me, through me, as me. And if you're
not, it's this idea that people start in
something called victim consciousness,
which is life is happening to me. And I
live in a state like whose fault is it
that things suck so much basically and
just please don't be my fault. It's
somebody else's. The big leap to the
next stage by me is no, I'm taking
responsibility.
>> I'm taking control and this is where I
live. That conversation didn't go well.
It's not because we're not a match. It's
because I could have been more verbally
fluent or been funnier or smiled wider,
whatever it is. And so most of personal
development, you might call it, occurs
in this by me stage. I'm taking control
of my finances, my health, my
everything. And then where I feel like
I've recently gotten to is the pain of
that. The endless responsibility of
having to exhausting.
>> It's so well at first it's liberating
>> and then it's a cage. It's it's
horrible. And so the end of that is you
step into through me, which is where I
feel like I'm starting where you allow
gratitude to move through you. uh grace
to move through you. Uh miraculous I
don't know what I'm going to say, but
here's me to move through you. And that
has helped me a lot to not feel like I'm
just moving backwards into this
victim consciousness. And I've and I can
subtly now, oh, they're not the same.
You said you can't surrender at the
beginning. And
>> I guess I'm starting to get that these
are fundamentally different approaches.
>> Yeah.
>> What's after through me?
>> As me, which is so life moves through
me. There's still a separation.
>> Is there something as me?
>> Life is as
>> Is there something after that?
>> I think it's just
>> as me in in the stage.
>> What do you think?
>> Yeah, there is.
>> Oh, come on. Hit me 100%.
>> I'm having a hard time verbalizing it,
but
>> Yeah. So, so, so I would I easy just as
>> as
>> just
>> the as long as there's a me, there's one
more step,
>> right? So, so like
>> I was going to say is, but Yeah. Yeah.
But again, language is really weird. It
gets really weird here.
>> Yeah. But I I think there's absolutely
one more step.
>> Yeah.
>> A five. Cool. Cool.
>> I mean, I don't My guess is there's no
>> there's probably a dozen steps after
that, too. My experience is evolution
doesn't end.
as
there's you could geek out on this
forever.
>> Yeah.
>> But what I do notice about the
developmental cycle generally is that
each new phase isn't a a a a
an evation
as well. So you're you're you're you're
seeing something new, but you can't
>> stop the integration. Meaning I am
walking, but it doesn't mean I now can't
crawl.
>> Yeah. So that's interesting because I I
think um you know in in psychiatry we
have a great phrase um that really stuck
with me which is growing up is the
process of abandoning what works.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Right. So so if you look at people who
have these patterns in their life where
they're stuck like chasing like okay
like you So it sounds like you did it
all. got in shape, you like learned how
to play guitar, multiple multiple
languages, right? So, like you had
something and it it worked, right? Like
you got the girl at 24 and then got the
girl at 25 and then got the girl at 26
and you keep on doing more and more.
It's working.
>> The process of really growing up is
getting rid of what what works.
>> So, you you kind of refer to it as an
integration. I I know it's going to be
weird. I think we're golden, but
>> I would call it disintegration, right? I
would call it getting rid of something
like literally getting rid of something.
>> So getting rid of your old patterns,
getting rid of and so going to this
place of even there's no me left, right?
So you're like getting rid of a certain
pattern of interaction. And like a good
example is like when you're two, you can
kind of cry and you can get away with
it. I have some patients that continue
to have temper tantrums when they're
like 26, 27, 68,
>> and they're throwing temper tantrums.
And in order for them to grow, they have
to get rid of the thing that their
spouse tolerated that allowed them to
get their way is what you sort of have
to get rid of.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. Both are true.
There's an integration and a
disintegration. Yeah. And especially
with the sense of self, there's a
disintegration. But even in that,
there's also then my experience that
this I think we're going we're going to
jump the shark until we get to the what
am I question. We can talk about like
where that goes. But yeah, I don't want
to get
>> Well, I'm I'm out of my depth now. So I
want to let you guys steer from here on
out.
>> I think we're okay. Like let let me just
ask like Charlie, can you summarize
what we've covered so far? Like where
are we right now? Okay. I appreciate
>> because because I think we got to go
there and I don't know how much longer
we can.
>> So we started with this this idea of
charisma and what is it? It's an ability
to vision and communicate clearly and to
listen well and there's all of these
behaviors and then what I heard this is
my as I piece it together with my own
understanding is there's a social mask
that is hi everyone you know it's it's
that thing then there's what I'm going
to call an ego which is you have to take
me and accept me and like I am this
thing and there's it's an unconscious
belief of this is what I am and there's
something deeper than that that is I'll
call the self here um that is unified
and has the uh
effortless quality of charisma it sounds
like in this and that at different
stages of one's life there are many
different approaches there's a to to
doing it and one is to fix all of the
surface level problems to get the girl
to do the thing to do the this to do the
that and another way in is to realize
there never was a problem I didn't need
the girl um and my way has been you know
I guess you could call it top down Yeah.
>> Um, and it sounds
>> like as was our way.
>> Sure.
>> So, so beautiful. So, I'm thinking um if
you
>> there's there's one more piece to it
that I think would actually tie it
together. So, in
>> the Greek of charisma, it was a a a like
it's a God-given gift or God's given
gift. It's this it's this thing that you
don't actually get to
>> you don't get choice in. It's just a
gift. Mhm.
>> And I think most people take that as
some people were given it and some
people weren't given it.
>> And I I don't know how they meant it,
but my I my guess is somebody along the
line meant it as no that that's the gift
all of us are given.
And whether you call that gift the thing
that is not separated inside of
ourselves or you call it awareness or
you call it a disintegrated sense of eye
or you call it the evaporation of ego or
whatever that is.
That that thing is probably what they're
talking and pointing to when they say
like the religious people often have a
huge sense of ego or I'm sorry huge
sense of um that's That also could be
true. Very common.
>> Yeah. Um also have this sense of of uh
that that divine gift that we all have.
And so they're they're they see and feel
that and live through that process often
even if it's distorted through drama or
whatever,
>> they have that thing. And and that's
where we're we're pointing to when we
start talking about the self and what is
the self and is is is that is is
starting to see that the ego which you
defined as I think I'm this and this and
this. I also define it as I don't think
I'm this and this and this. Right?
Somebody's like no no I'm not that
pretty. Also ego.
>> I'm not a loser.
>> I'm not a loser. Also ego. Um and so so
there is this so and and when I'm
speaking to
um the idea of there's your authentic
self. That's what I'm speaking to.
>> Mhm.
>> Right. I'm not saying you need to be
fixed because that doesn't need to be
fixed.
>> That but and absolutely there's work
that needs to be done for you to be able
to see that to understand that's who you
are.
>> So that's the
>> Yeah. So, if I I'm I'm sort of feeling
like
I'm going to offer some language that
and and maybe once we if y'all like the
language and it feels like it it's a
model that kind of works, then we can
get to the real stuff.
>> Yeah. So, you know, and it blows my mind
once again, Joe, that like you like I
don't know how you learned this stuff,
but like, you know, I spent like
literally years, maybe you did too, but
years in India and South Korea and Japan
and stuff like at monasteries and and
things like that, but so I I like this
term aamar, which is the Sanskrit word
that loosely gets translated as ego, but
the technical translation is the feeling
of I, right? So, anytime you say I am
dot dot dot, that is not actually what
you are. Mhm.
>> That is the ego, right? So this is where
when when Joe is saying, "I'm a winner,
that's ego. I'm a loser, that's also
ego."
>> And and so I know it sounds kind of
weird because we think we are these
things. But like I'm a doctor, right?
Like that's if if I were to say I'm a
doctor, everyone would agree. But like
show me.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Show where is the doctor in me?
Like you can't find it. It's not a real
thing. It's a construction.
>> Right. So, so and this is where people
will say like so all of the attributes,
anything that you, if you say I am dot
dot dot, anything that comes after that
statement is part of ego. And this is
really confusing for people because if I
say I am a man, right? And because
everyone's like, oh, like that's like
that's biological, right? Where I'm not
trying to get into like gender rights or
whatever. I mean like in a very
technical sense, forget about morality
and what's right or whatever. Let's
let's talk scientifically. How do I know
I'm a man? Like Charlie, are you a man?
The first blush is yes.
>> Yeah. So, how do you know?
>> Um, I look at my genitals. I
>> So, let's say you have testicular
cancer. You have to have your testicles
removed. Right. So, this is like work
that I've literally done. I' I've had
patients who have a double bracka
negative mutation who have to have
double prophylactic mastctomies. I've
had patients who have hysterctomies. The
uterus needs to be taken out at the age
of 24 because they've got really bad
fibroids. If I remove your genitals, are
you still a man?
>> Uh,
I don't know. I am. I think so. Um,
>> right. So then some people will say like
you're you still have XY chromosomes,
>> right?
>> Right. So is that where man comes from?
>> Mhm.
>> Is it the genitals?
>> Like which part of what part of you
makes you a man?
>> And ultimately everything can be taken
and will be it seems like. Right.
>> Right. So, so this is where even there's
so many foundational things about our
identity where I I I love Joe's language
of like show me.
>> Mhm.
>> Like prove it to me, right? And we're so
trapped in this idea that I am
something. Whereas if we really look at
like kind of what we are, you know, you
change, your thoughts change, your
emotions change, your identity changes,
your body changes.
So none of those are really what makes
you you, right? Like if I lost an arm,
I'd still be me. I was still me before I
graduated from medical school.
>> People think that you become a medical
doctor when you get your your piece of
paper and you finish medical school. I
know the day I became a doctor, it was 6
months after I got my MD degree. It was
like when I was on call and someone
asked for my help and my senior was
unavailable and I was able to handle it.
>> It that's when I was at a wedding and
someone was like, "Is there a doctor
here?" and you're like, "Okay, yeah, no,
this person doesn't need to go to the
hospital. It's a panic attack, not a
heart attack. If I'm wrong, they die."
>> Right? So, like there there are moments
where we have this feeling of becoming,
but that's not really who we are.
>> So, the aamara is when you say when you
say to yourself, I am a winner or I am a
loser. It feels that way and it feels
true to you and that's the way the ego
is. But if you kind of think about it
like I can't biops you and find either
of those things. And so a lot of what
we're talking about in terms of this
deeper charisma, this authenticity
that comes from the layer that divine
connection comes from the layer beneath
ego. Because as long as you are chasing
ego, you're going to get back to this
trap that we talked about with you where
it's like I'm going to be better. I'm
going to be better. I'm going to be
better. But the more that you become
that thing and the more that people love
the shell that you become, I'm going to
become rich. I'm going to become
handsome.
>> It doesn't actually solve the problem,
right? And this is how you become
narcissistic.
This is how you become hyper sensitive
to other people's judgments. This is why
you can't leave the house unless you get
a nose job.
>> That's all the growth of the ego. So,
this is the the biggest problem is that
so many of the things that we do to fix
the problems in our life, as Joe said,
just make them worse.
>> It's really well said. The way I give
people a direct potentially a direct
experience of this is like try to get in
touch with the thing that you've always
been like that there's never been one
moment that that hasn't been true
and there's a there's a sense that
happens is there the words can't come to
mind but there's a sense of that which
is that place that is beyond the ego
>> and there's this very weird thing and
I'm really curious about your thinking
on this which is there's a again every
epiphany is a rut waiting to happen.
There's a place where fighting the ego
really important like disintegrating the
ego really important. There's also a
place where it's really important to say
oh there is no ego
>> that's just an illusion that that whole
thing was like a you know that happens
in apparently from what I understand
from neuroscience is that the sense of
eye happens in the same part of the
brain that hallucinates
>> so like the the is that do you know
about that
>> I would not say that okay
>> but we can get into that if you want
>> yeah I don't I just it was an article I
read and I was but generally there is
just they um
there is like a that sense of self is at
some point there's a time when it's
really important to to like see through
it and to work work it out and then
there's also a part where there's just
like uh you know I think there was there
was an Irish mystic named Woui wei and
he said um fight your ego try to destroy
your ego try to see through your ego the
only problem is that it doesn't exist
and I remember after 10 years of
fighting it that moment gave me massive
relief to read that
I don't think it would have if I hadn't
fought it for 10 years.
>> Yeah.
>> So I I think a couple of of thoughts
just to kind of pile on to that.
>> Yeah.
>> So first is you know I think the ego we
know where it sort of comes from in the
brain and it's fascinating. So the the
ego most likely comes from something
called our default mode network which is
our sense of self. So the default mode
network is the ability for you to like
recognize that you have an identity
right? So when you look in the mirror,
you don't see a face, you see you,
right? Like you have like an
identification with that. That's
probably the default mode network. The
really interesting thing is a
hyperactive default mode network is what
makes you depressed. So if you look at
if you talk to someone who's uh
clinically depressed, I'm a loser.
>> My family is better off without me. It's
always me me.
I can't do this. I can't do that. and
they don't think about anyone except for
themselves in a weird way, right? So,
like if you're really struggling with
depression, you'll notice that you're
looking at yourself. You're thinking
about yourself. I go out to with my I go
out with my friends. I'm thinking about
how I look. I'm thinking about how they
would have more fun if I wasn't here.
I'm thinking about how I should have
jumped into that conversation. I had
something really funny to say, but I
didn't know how to jump in and now I'm
not saying anything. And now I'm just
sitting here and like
>> And they're like the exact opposite of
charismatic.
>> Absolutely. They are like the they are
the people everyone's like, "Oh god,
could you I just don't want to work with
you. I don't please don't sit next to
me." No, no, no. They're coming over.
>> They are the people they're creating
that reality and it's because they're
the farthest away from that authenticity
and sense of self, whatever you want to
call it.
>> So I I think I just I love the way you
brought that back.
>> So I think the more internally divided
you are, that fundamental charisma,
>> so you can be um car salesman charisma
by being internally divided. You can
think
on top
>> the core of this charisma
is to not be internally divided. As long
as you are feeling anxious and
pretending to be confident, you can
pretend to be confident. You can appear
confident. You will never be
charismatic.
>> I feel like we're gotten to a really
important core which is this lack of
internal division or just a wholeness.
>> Absolutely right. So that's that's where
the authenticity cuz the moment that I
have something within me and I'm
pretending to be something else that's
not authentic
>> and and that when I'm pointing to when
I'm saying be yourself
>> it is that sense of wholeness that I am
pointing to
>> it is that thing oh wait that's the
thing that I've always been when you
went there in your mind or the people
are listening if they went there
>> that wasn't like two parts
>> that was a sense of of of oneness maybe
not even with itself but with
everything.
>> Yeah. So beautiful. So I think this is
what's really cool about the default
mode network. So if we look at the
fastest acting so default mode network
is overactivation of default uh sorry
depression is overactivation of default
mode network. Right? So I'm constantly
thinking about myself. The fastest
treatment pharmacologic treatment for
depression is ketamine. And ketamine is
was originally not a psychiatric agent.
It was used in anesthesia. Still is.
>> Tranquilizer. Yeah.
>> A dissoci dissociative agent.
>> Okay. So tranquilizer puts you to sleep.
It doesn't put you to sleep. You're
actually awake with ketamine.
>> Okay?
>> It dissociates you. So your sense of
self disappears.
>> So this is the other cool thing.
Meditation deactivates the default mode
network. The other really cool thing is
psychedelics.
So
>> yeah. Well,
>> well, let me let me finish. I know. I
know. I'm with you.
>> We're with you. You're going to say the
opposite and we're still going to agree.
Yeah.
So, so psychedelics, this is what's
really fascinating. If if you look at
the studies on psychedelic healing, so
people will ask people when you take a
psychedelic, what do you experience? If
you see colors, if you see cool things,
you don't actually heal. The the the
subjective experience that correlates
with trauma improvement, depression
improvement, with psychedelic substance
use is ego death, ego dissolution,
deactivation of the default mode
network. And it is this sense that even
at your deepest self, you know, there
there's the surface thoughts, then
there's the ego, and then at that
deepest spell self, you're not even you.
You're everything.
>> So people who experience this sense of
interconnectedness
come out of that experience with a
different perception of themselves. I am
no longer a doctor. I'm no longer alloc.
I'm no longer a man.
>> Yep.
>> And that's literally the default mode
network. And this is why I feel really
strongly about it. I I'm confident this
is correct because we have three
different, you know, meditation,
psychedelics, and ketamine all activate
this thing. We know it's hyperactivated.
So, that's kind of like how we get to
that self.
>> Yeah. Okay. I'm going to geek out for a
minute. First of all, uh
I want to just put a warning out to
anybody who's listening to this.
Ketamine is highly addictive. I have
seen some great human beings get
completely destroyed by that
drug.
>> Agreed. Don't use ketamine.
>> Yeah. So yeah, or use it really
sparingly, really well with a really
great uh people with you. But so that
that's one thing I want to say just
because I've I've suffered personal
grief and loss through that. Um
>> the second thing is I agree meditation
does exactly what you're saying at a
point. Meditation does exactly what
you're saying. There is a point where
people meditate and how they meditate
they're reinforcing their ego. And so so
there's also that. So if you're
meditating in a way where you're not
trying to manage yourself or control
yourself, then it's a higher chance of
that disintegration happening than when
you're trying to manage and control
yourself. Saying that because I did that
for a decade and I know exactly what
that's like. Yeah.
>> Which I think is actually part of the
journey and important. Um
so that that's the things there. I think
the I I I couldn't agree more with the
default mode network. I I love I didn't
know about that. That's like such an
amazing I'll send you some stuff. Yeah,
please. That that is really cool. And
>> my experience is those are three ways to
do it and there's other ways to do it
too.
>> A sense of loving yourself I find also
does that same thing because one of the
aspects of the somatic experience of
love is that you're not giving or
receiving
anymore. Like if you deeply go into that
state, it's a lot like a like a an
amazing orgasm that you might have. Like
not the kind of like a porn orgasm, but
the orgasm where you disintegrate
>> is another place where you can where you
can find that. Love is another place you
can find that. Um deep intimate
relationship is also a place you will
you start noticing. We'll do this thing
with groups where you've got like six or
seven people and this person is anxious
or this person is anxious and we'll ask
this person to hold the anxiety and
literally feel the anxiety and they can
basically no longer feel it.
>> Tell me about that.
>> It's a it's I don't understand it.
>> So I'm I'm just trying to understand
even the logistics of it. So you're in a
group of people, two people are feeling
anxious. You ask one of them to hold
>> No. No. Uh let's say we're working with
one person and they're going through
something
>> and we'll ask people to hold their
emotional states and it makes it in a
group it makes it that other people
can't hold the emotional state. It's a
really fast let let me make it really
practical. You've got um a husband and
wife dynamic
>> and the husband always worries about
money and the wife is always like ah
relax it's okay. And then one day the
husband's like I don't I'm not worrying
about money anymore.
>> Guaranteed
that Yeah. or you're in a business
meeting and there's the naysayer
>> and finally the team's just like I'm
done with this naysayer. We're going to
get rid of this naysayer and then come
back to that group in a month and
there's a new naysayer.
>> Huh.
>> So there's this interesting dynamic of
seeing when you see yourself through a
community there's a sense of self that
disintegrates. most the best experience
of this where when this is fully
understood happens in um that I've ever
heard I can't pronounce her name
unfortunately but um it's a this tribe
in in Africa where if the if there is a
husband and wife that are having a
problem they don't see it as a husband
and wife problem they see it as a
community problem
>> this is this is the way that in
ayurveetic medicine my fingernail is
kind of rigidy that means it's a
digestive problem which I can also see
in my eyes.
>> They see this as a an a symptom of a
community problem. And so the entire
community comes
>> and works with that with that couple to
heal the
>> that because that's how they're going to
heal their community.
>> I feel really moved as you talk about
that. Yeah. Beautiful.
>> And that also is a disintegration of the
sense of eye
>> that it's not actually me. So it's
there. I think there's lots of ways to
do it. And every single one of them that
I have ever run across deeply healing,
crazy healing. And as a matter of fact,
when we do some of the work where we're
asking other people to hold emotions,
this that experience of non-duality of
seeing self as everything happens
consistently.
>> So there's like there there's lots of
modalities that that I have found or
experimented or played with that bring
that thing and every single one of them
deeply deeply healing.
>> They restore wholeness by
>> No.
>> No. No, they show that we are whole.
>> Yeah. Restore implies it wasn't there to
begin, right? So So yeah, I mean I I
think there's got to be a second
conversation. So I just call that when I
teach that to my patients, I call it an
emotional umbilical cord.
>> Mhm.
>> So you're just connected and emotions
pass back and forth.
>> Um it's a really useful technique to use
>> from a manipulative standpoint, right?
So if you're like like in a challenging
work environment,
>> Yeah. Um like I I call uh so someone
taught this to me one of my mentors
sitting in someone's seat right so if
someone has a pattern of behavior
>> and you start engaging in that pattern
of behavior it'll flip
>> y
>> there's a certain amount of energy and I
I don't I'm just using that as a general
there there's a certain amount of stuff
that is non-physical that exists between
us
>> and if I don't hold it you will and this
has been shown in research so like
>> because I I want to go back to it but
this is really cool. So if you have a
child with an anxiety disorder and you
have a parent with an anxiety disorder,
if you treat the parent without touching
the child,
whatever benefit the parent gets will
get translated over not one to one, but
will basically get translated over into
the child.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Right. So we we we share emotions and
there's all kinds of empathic circuits
that get activated. This is also where
like charisma kind of comes in, right?
So when you're authentic
and you're not internally divided, when
there's no car salesman, right? So like
when we're sitting with a car salesman,
we kind of get convinced and this is why
they use tactics like time share
presentations. They know that we're not
going to trust them. So they em
emotionally manipulate us.
>> Yeah.
>> They figure out how to do that. But even
when you're in that situation, you can
empathically detect that undercurrent of
what they're not sharing with you. So
the more unified you are, the more
authentic you are, the more not yourself
you are, the more connected you are, the
more that will create this diad of
charisma.
>> That takes us back to the beginning of
the diad. I love it. I love it.
>> So I I think the one thing that um you
know, we've talked a little bit about is
like Charlie's journey. Joe had a
journey. It sounds very similar to my
own in the sense of
>> you have to go through the motions. You
know, you have to kind of do things the
wrong way to realize it doesn't work.
>> Um, one of my favorite stories about
this is if you sort of look at these
spiritual leaders from the Indian
subcontinent in ancient India, we had
four casts and the Brahmans were at the
top and they're the priests, they're the
teachers of meditation, they're the
gurus. Then you have the kings, the
chhatrias below them. They're like
nobility. The really interesting thing
is that all of the enlightened people,
not all, all the famous enlightened
people that come out of the Indian
subcontinent, none of them are priests.
None of them are meditation teachers.
>> Oh, interesting.
>> They're all kings. So, Buddha was a
king.
>> Krishna was a king. Rah was a king.
These are considered incarnations of
Vishnu.
>> Um, even Mahavir, the the founder of
Janism is like was a king.
>> So, one time I I had a question for a
teacher of mine. And I was like, why are
all the kings getting enlightened and
none of the priests? And and the answer
is really interesting. It's that you
have to chase material things,
get them, and then realize it doesn't
work, right? So if I if I tell anyone at
home like, oh yeah, like discover your
true self and like you don't need to get
the girl to be happy. There's a seed of
like I don't know that, right? You have
to actually try something, realize that
it is insufficient to really look for
something more.
And and so I you know I think it's the
the question that I've got for you Joe
is okay so you're talking about this
authentic self. We've all been through
these hard journeys.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you think that everyone has to go
through that journey or how do we get to
that authentic self?
>> Yeah. The way I think about it is uh in
a human development way in a a human
development framework. So um you could
look at
lots of different models of this teroof
fallen stages is one and you know spiral
dynamics is another but there's
generally I would say growing up is
waking up waking up is growing up and so
there's a set of stages that you have to
go through but it's all of our
birthright and as long as
you know and it seems like trauma gets
in the way of it. So the more trauma
that you've been encountering often
times like it slows down the process
which is why you see somebody who's
still acting like seven or 13 or 21 and
so but I think that there's just this
natural development that happens in
humans this and it's all theoretical um
meaning
yep there's research there's a lot of
research on it there's a lot of things
to prove it but I think we're all still
just guessing about how this all works I
don't think there's been enough work
done for it to be really secure and this
is how it goes. But my experience is
that there's a most of the work has been
done on the cognitive framework. So
basically the way you think about the
way I think about cognitive cognitive
development and what I would call head
awakening is
um your sense of self, your sense of
time and your sense of context change
and they get bigger and bigger and
bigger until they kind of explode into
you know they kind of rearrange. So, if
you look at a little kid and you say,
"Um, your birthday's 6 months away. Be
excited, Billy." Billy's not excited.
>> Billy's excited because they can kind of
conceive about a week or two away. An
average American can conceive of about
three and a half years, which is why
they could all sign four-year loans that
would like blow up on the housing
market.
>> Um,
you know, there's traditions clearly
where it's seven generations where what
I do today, I'm thinking about seven
generations ahead. um that you know in
in the American Indian tradition. So
that that length of time expands until
there's a point of implosion which is
you know infinity is found in the depth
of a moment. It's not found in a length
of time. Same with the sense of self and
a little kid. What do you want for
Christmas? GI Joe kung fu grip. What
does mom want for Christmas? GI Joe with
a kung fu grip. What does dad want for
Christmas? GI Joe with a kung fu grip.
They get a little bit older and dad
wants a Tesla. Mom wants a new husband.
Whatever. you know, whatever it is. Um,
and so and that sense of self grows from
family to tribe to nation to humanity to
ecosystem and then it implodes into
oneness. You see yourself as of
everything.
I could go into context too, but that's
enough. So basically that's how and then
at some point in that lack of sense of
self, you you you can't believe any of
your thoughts anymore. your thoughts.
Yeah, they're true. They're not true. I
could see them being true in this way. I
could see them not being true in this
way. But you can't you can't you can no
longer go, "Oh, yeah, that's that is
right."
Because
that that requires the ego. You have to
see yourself in that. So So that would
be the what I would call head awakening.
The heart awakening, what I call heart
awakening, which is more of the
emotional side of things, more the
million side of things. It's where our
decision-m happens in the brain is in
the emotional center of the brain. That
looks like
um we start off with
um
we're just taken away by our emotions
and then we go into managing our
emotions and then we start going into
loving and accepting all of our
emotions. And and as we love and accept
and have them move through us without
having us be controlled by them, um the
emotions start to clarify. So anger
starts becoming determination.
Anger stops looking like nice dress or
you son of a blah blah blah blah. It
starts looking more like a Gandhi or
Martin Luther King anger which is this
is unacceptable.
And so our emotions start changing into
a place where they're all pleasurable.
They're all acts of they're all there's
a kind of a felt sense of love in all of
them. And there it's a very fluid thing
where we're not holding
holding our emotions as who we are. And
and the key thing there is as that opens
up, as that heart opens up, two things
happen. one is that we just fall in love
with there's literally a felt sense of
love and joy
um that is kind of perpetually there
more and more and also you can't believe
your emotions just like you can't
believe your thoughts. So the head
awakening really feels like um really
feels like peace but that that peace
that you can always get at any time but
the sense of joy that sense of love
comes from a heart more of an emotional
process and there's been very very
little research done on that second part
>> that I'm aware of. You just made it look
like maybe you know some and I would
love to get it. There's a huge amount of
research in human development on that
first part, but I think this is just a
natural progression of who we are and we
just have to go through we have to crawl
to learn how to walk. And so that's how
I see it working. And then there's a gut
one that we don't have to go into, but
generally that's that's generally how I
see it. And so when I'm working with
people, my assumption is this is their
birthright
that there that there's work to be done,
but
>> let's start with the assumption that
this is your birthright. This isn't
something that you have to achieve
because my noticing in modern western
culture the idea of achieving it isn't
often a very egoic state which actually
enforces the ego rather than
>> who is it that conquers the ego. I
conquer the egoh.
>> Yeah. Exactly. And so
>> often times I'm I'm that's why because
of the context in which I'm working and
that's how I would speak that truth. If
I'm working in a context where
everybody's laxidasical, I'd be, "Yeah,
you gotta get get your grind, you know,
let's go. Let's go. Let's do it.
Push-ups your whatever it is." So, which
is like if I think about Guanka's work
and the vaposa stuff, it's very
disciplineoriented, very hardcore, but
that culture is far more going with the
flow than our culture. So, it's just
teaching to the audience.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, I'm I'm kind of curious
about So, there's so many things there
that I could
>> I feel like you're a tennis ball machine
and you're there's a lot of balls coming
over the net. I'm happy to return any of
them.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Um but I'm curious, Charlie, if
something kind of calls to you about,
you know, the the scope of what we're
talking about today.
>> Yeah. I have a number of things. I I
don't need to race there. I have one of
the questions that is coming up is like
we're talking a little bit about
charisma and what I mentioned about like
>> being we're we're in the depths of the
our birthright and being ourselves and
Donald Trump is president you know and
so like I want to at some point wind
back down to the concrete reality of
like okay so if this is this is the most
charismatic thing how come it's not
everywhere how come we're not seeing
this radiate more
>> but I don't need to take it there right
now.
>> Yeah. So may maybe I'll
offer like a couple thoughts and let me
know if you all feel so.
>> So So Joe, what I liked about what you
said is I I think I'm sort of seeing a
model, right, where there's like the and
and you work really sematically, really
viscerally.
>> Yeah.
>> Working with sort of stages of
development really understanding that
like
>> so a couple of like themes that I'm
noticing is the way that we respond to
our emotions. So first is there's a lack
of awareness of what we're feeling.
>> Yeah.
>> And and the emotions are going to be
controlling all of our actions. And I'm
going to be infusing a little bit of my
conclusions in here.
>> Very true.
>> You know, so first thing is like
>> I'm not angry,
>> you're angry. So as long as you're
there, like nothing in your life is
going to be going well.
>> Then comes the second stage of being
aware of your emotions. But then we have
to manage it. Oh, I'm angry. That's not
okay. I need to control that anger.
>> Yes.
>> Third stage is okay, it's okay to be
angry. What is the anger telling me?
What is the anger motivating me to do?
What like this is a part of me. This is
not bad. It doesn't need to be
controlled. I don't need to be
controlled by it.
>> Right.
>> Right. How can I understand this?
Integrate it. Live with it.
>> I would say that the most crucial part
there is the welcoming of it.
>> Sure.
>> Oh, I can't wait to feel angry. I can't
wait to feel anxiety. I can't wait to
feel sad. I can't wait to feel joy. And
what I notice is that that that
welcoming comes in stages as well, which
is first depending on society, but
usually the first one is anger or
sadness. Like upper middle class white
culture is men it's sadness is anger is
the easiest to access. Women it's
sadness and then the other then fear.
But then like pleasure and joy and
exuberance, those are things that people
we we will do work with people and
they'll get angry for 45 minutes and
fully move anger and get to clarity, but
we ask them to like do pleasure and it's
like 2 minutes in there, I'm done.
>> Yeah. It's really hard for them.
>> It's really hard. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Right. Cuz the anger the the pleasure
has so many negative associations with
it.
>> Right. Yeah. So it's but it is the
welcoming. It's like I can't wait to
feel that thing again because I know how
much wisdom is in it. I know that it's a
great signal. I know that when I when I
love it, welcome it, that my life
changes in great ways.
>> The the other thing that really struck
me is how much and I don't know if this
phrase is going to mean anything to
y'all, but how much a nahhat chakra
oriented you are. So like how heart
chakra oriented you are.
>> Yeah.
>> So you know even when you talk about
like head awakening and heart awakening.
>> Yeah. Um, and this is why I think I
don't understand like half of what you
say. Like I I get it. I know we agree,
but like the self-love thing has always
been confusing to me.
>> Yeah.
>> And and so the the I've noticed that the
visceral emotional perspective
>> Yeah.
>> connects to the heart chakra
>> in terms of spiritual development.
>> Yeah.
>> That is just not the chakra that I chose
to focus on.
>> Right. Yeah. And
>> by the way, me too. So, meaning that
all I cared about was head awakening.
That's all I thought there really was
from ages of
>> 204
to probably like
37 40 something like that.
>> And and so I'm the question that I'm I'm
so What is the chakra that you decided
to focus on?
>> Uh third eye. Third eye. Okay. Sorry to
interrupt.
>> So um head.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
So, so I I guess the question that I've
got for you, Joe, is like can you do you
talk about your spiritual journey
publicly?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Very rarely, but I do.
>> Yeah. So, can you tell me like what that
looked like?
>> Yeah.
So, the head So, okay. So, what happened
was I was I've always been interested in
it as a I was born and raised Catholic.
So, I knew the parables of Jesus better
than I knew than the people who were
teaching me. I just was and then I
collected parables across all thing. I
got but it was all very intellectual
understanding no experience. My wife uh
part of condition of marrying my wife
was we were going to do therapy. We were
going to do a 10-day meditation retreat
and we were going to uh go through
Southeast Asia backpacking for 6 months.
We could survive those three things
together. We could get married.
>> Her conditions or your conditions?
>> Her conditions. Her conditions. Yeah.
Yeah. My wife is absolutely responsible
>> uh for mine too. Yeah. And so uh so and
then in that in the 10day
uh meditation retreat I had a an
experience of oneness with the universe
that lasted about 8 seconds. I call
God's little drug dealer. It was just
like and whatever that was I was going
to spend the rest of my life looking for
it. Like I wanted that thing and I just
all my ambition, all my dedication went
towards that. And so I but I had massive
authority issues and so uh listening to
teachers was just not going to be a
thing that I was going to do. So but I
needed their information. So I'd listen
and test and listen and test and listen
and test. And so that's I started this
experimental process of oh so the Buddha
says this about grief is how let's see
how true that is. was like what's the
experiment I can concoct that will teach
me a felt sense of it
and in that process I also just did
every possible thing I could find
Hoffman process different forms of
therapy the therapist that we went to I
feel so grateful she was amazing had her
own awakening experience and didn't even
recognize it like she was 80 something
years old while I was talking to her one
day and she said oh this that kind of
thing happened to me once and she told
me and I'm like come on
and uh she so so I got really lucky
there. But we just bas I just basically
looked everywhere or I just dedicated to
I didn't make money. I went into debt. I
just and and it pretty much crescendoed
with me sitting in a room meditating by
myself for the greater part of 7 to 10
years. I would worry about money and
meditate. Those were my two pastimes and
literally meditate about probably about
seven hours a day is like a lot of my
time.
>> So when you say meditate, what kind of
practice were you doing?
Yeah. So I had this really interesting
thing. So I started with vaposa. That
was my first meditation. And
>> um because I was a child of an
alcoholic, I can I could always read
people pretty well because it was what
you needed to do to survive. And so
>> um I went in for one of the questions
and I told them what was happening with
my meditation practice. And and so in
vapasa the idea of meditation is that
you at the beginning you put your
attention from head to after you learn
to focus and concentrate through just
focusing on your nose you move your
attention from the top to the bottom and
my attention was moving on its own and I
was following it and I basically asked
is that okay and the man was like no you
got to do the thing and the wife was
like
what are you doing like you shouldn't
say that to him and so they disagreed
And so I immediately lost trust. And so
what I would start doing is I would just
read books on meditation and experiment.
Oh, this form of meditation, let's
experiment with that, this form of
meditation, that experiment with that.
>> Until at some point I had the
recognition that I was just trying to
manipulate myself and manage myself. I
wasn't actually being with what was. And
then it just turned into just enjoyment.
It's just, oh, I'm just going to sit
here and enjoy myself is really where it
it ended up being. Um during that whole
time uh it started with a guy named
Papaji who was a Ramana Marahishi
>> uh descendant but that what am I
question popped up it was who am I in
Ramana's words it turned into what am I
then turned into what am I essentially
and and that question 10 times a day
would cross my mind it was without any I
there was no discipline to it was just
like this is the question over and
>> spontaneous and I would or trained
because I was so into it for so long
then maybe it became spontaneous but it
it just and so that question I wrestled
with for a decade easily. Um and then
and that at the same time I'm starting
to do all this emotional stuff and I'm
living with my wife who was all about
the emotional stuff and she would make
fun of she'd be like hey baby tell me
about your spiritual journey because I'm
bored and I need to go to sleep. Like
she had nicknames for everybody. Papa G
was Punjab Potatoes. I know that
probably sounds right, but she had fun
made fun of everybody. Like Stephen
Harrison was somebody who I really dug
and she call him being boring and Aia
Shante was like uh I can't remember
who's he's now a friend. But like it's
just like it was just she just
I was dissociative enough where she knew
that there was it was getting in the way
of intimacy with myself and with her in
that process. And so she was making fun
of it and but she was deeply in an
emotional doing a lot of sematic and
emotional work.
>> And so then um
uh I I bit of a what they call like fog
walker. I had the moment of awakening,
but I didn't even particularly notice
cuz I'd had so many peak experiences
that I chased and I'm like, I'm not
chasing peak experiences anymore. And
I'm at a meditation retreat going to the
bathroom and which very typical story.
And had this moment of, oh,
I the the question, what am I
extinguished? It was just so clear, not
verbal, but very clear. And that's when
I got really lucky. Right after that, I
had
the thought that this never ends, that
the evolution never ends. And so whereas
I saw a lot of my friends who had gone
through it and had some sort of
awakening experience get stuck in the
identity of awake, for whatever reason,
I didn't get stuck there very long. And
and mostly because of that thought, oh,
I know this never ends.
And so I collected all these tools from
all these people, but mostly I'd been
experimenting this whole time. And so I
got there and I was like, "Oh, okay."
The the negative selft talk, the voice
in my head is almost completely gone. I
thought it was gone. There was and I
noticed little things
like, "Oh, the to-do list is still
there. There's like there's other
there's like little parts of it that are
left, but mostly it was gone. The editor
was gone and there was this vast
spaciousness that I could hang out in
anytime I wanted to. But there was this
recognition eventually that there wasn't
that what didn't make a joyful life.
that didn't make a life of love. That
didn't make a healthy family. This is
about when the kids were young. And so I
was like, "Oh, what the what's going on
now?" Like, "What is that thing?"
>> And that's when I really got into I I I
I met a man who had the ability to sit
with people as you and I do, and in a
very brief time, their whole life would
be shifted. And And I got really into
what he was doing. And he passed. He he
was a he was a good friend. and he got
cancer. And you'll you'll like you'll
find this story funny. Uh got cancer and
he came to live with us to cure this
slowmoving kind of cancer
um and lymphatic thing. And he uh and he
lived with us. So I got to see him work
and work with him and he worked with a
lot of people. So I got to really see
what was going on there. And he um and
then he passed of a heart attack on his
first silent retreat. So also had an
awakening situation, also had a still a
strong sense of self
like not in an unhealthy way. Um and and
then he he died at his first silent
retreat of a heart attack. And so um but
when he passed, I was like, I know
there's other people who must be able to
do it. So I went around the world like
finding them, studying with them, seeing
what they had in common. And that's
where the view framework came for the
for the connection courses. Here's a way
to relate with people that actually
allows for a lot of depth and intimacy.
And in that became the relational work
and the relational work it's it's all
it's like you can't avoid the emotion
and the sematic to actually do like that
deep relational work is was my
experience. And so that opened up that
doorway. And what I noticed is there's a
lot of awakened people, but they were
the thing that I thought was the thing
that was going to make me good enough or
happy enough or whatever it was. I was
watching people act out of ego and
sleeping with their students and doing
all this stuff and but they clearly had
the the awakening. I in fact I at one
point I invited 16 of them into a
three-day retreat with me and I just
watched their egos battle and I remember
>> these are spiritual teachers.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I remember I invited Aia to
come. I'm like, I'm really excited cuz
everybody talks about it differently and
I would love you to be there and we
could all learn from each other cuz I
saw all these different paths and
everybody was kind of stuck on their
path and he said, "Ah, no man, there'll
be way too much ego in that." And I
remember saying to him like that's
exactly where we should be then. Like if
there's like if we there's all this
awakening, there's all this ego, like
what the is going on here? Like this is
our place to figure this out. He would
very wisely said no. And and so I got to
see oh all that and I said okay well
what what's actually happening here and
that's when I really started delving
into the emotional work
>> interesting
>> and I focus on the emotional work and I
speak through the emotional work again
not because I think it's more important
than the head or the gut
I do it because it's what I notice is
you want to if if people
trans my my experience is if
transformation requires as humans to
work both on the head, the heart and the
gut level. Deep transformation, you can
get a lot of ways in any one of them.
But if you really want the deep stuff
and you or you want uh elacrity in your
movement, working on all three levels is
really important. And our society is
just really out of whack on the
emotional, there's not a lot of people
doing that deep emotional work. There's
a lot of head experiences. There's a lot
of nervous system stuff that's going on
now. The breath work and all that. Like
all that stuff is great,
>> but it's I just saw the whole of
emotions and so often I focus there
because it's just the lever that I get
the
>> the best. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Yeah. That's that's fascinating. I mean
I I think um I'm pretty sure I know this
sounds weird, but I understand every
step of that journey.
>> Yeah. Right.
>> Sounds it sounds
>> and and it and it's interesting how
>> um kind of I sort of ended up like I
think there's a part of us that ended up
in the same place. So my heart chakra
work happened like kicking and
screaming.
>> Yeah. Mine too.
>> into it. Right. So So and I I'm just
sort of thinking about people who are
listening to this and um you know if
they're listening to this I imagine
their main question is like okay so what
do I do?
>> Right. Yeah.
>> So so we started with this very like you
know headle
here's the regression analysis of
charisma and what are the things?
>> Yeah. and you can write things or you
can talk out loud. And then we sort of
talk about this ego piece about sort of
noticing your ego. Um I I loved your
model of, you know, I don't know if it
was your model or my representation of
your model of, you know, unaware of your
emotion, aware of your emotion, managing
it, welcoming your emotion, and then
through that welcoming the
transformation kind of happens on their
own on its own. Yeah. which is kind of
where I feel like called to go for a
second because I think the key thing
>> if people are listening to this I I
imagine they're like okay how do I
become charismatic
>> yeah right
>> right which is like I if you guys have
been paying attention you know the
problem with that question is the word
become
>> right
>> right so so there's this weird like you
you have to this is something that is
cultivated not done you have to get out
of the way and the charisma will like
float to the surface
>> right And and I think that um
this is where I think about a couple of
like more technical things.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So I I'm a little bit more head
oriented.
>> Yeah.
>> And so you know my journey was like just
a couple of key themes that were really
similar.
>> Great.
>> One is um I never had a guru. I had a
lot of gurus.
>> Yeah.
>> I you know I spent years going to
different teachers and different ashrams
and things like that. Um it it I I spent
a lot of time with contemplative
practice. I think the the big maybe a
couple of big differences that sort of
led me to slightly different places. One
is I I formally trained in neuroscience
and psychiatry.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> You know, and then the second thing was
I really tunnneled down sort of using
that like scientific mechanistic
perspective. I really tunnneled down
into like the mechanisms of spiritual
awakening.
>> Yeah. And and so I I think all these
things sort of happen in their own time
and all that stuff is kind of true.
>> Yeah.
>> Um but I think that there are certain
things if we're talking about the
process of connecting with that
authenticity.
>> I think what you're saying absolutely
works, right? So if you sort of
>> there's certain things that I would kind
of say are getting in the way. The first
is the lack of awareness of what you're
feeling.
>> Second thing is trying to control what
you're feeling. The behaviors that you
create will worsen your circumstances.
We've talked about that. And I think
this is the confusing part for many
people, which is then if you kind of get
out of the way and you welcome the
emotions, they will like rise up, right?
There's a bunch of them that are stored.
>> Yes.
>> Packaged that will start to rise up.
>> They will start to rise up and then
that's a very often times painful
process that we cannot run away from.
The fact that we run away from it to
begin with is how they get stored in the
first place.
>> Yes. Yep. and then some sort of
uncontrolled
unintentional. Right. So, I think it's
interesting where you were you kind of
leveled up when you were on your way to
the bathroom or using the bathroom.
>> Using
>> Yeah. Using the bathroom, right?
>> And and so so that's what's really hard.
But I I want people to like really
understand that that if you set up all
the pieces, right? So, if you like have
the right soil and have the right water
and have the right sunlight, then it
will grow eventually. You can even have
the wrong soil and the wrong water and
the wrong sunlight and it'll grow, too.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, and I I I think the the
>> Yeah. And there's lots of things you can
do about soil and sunlight and Yeah.
Yeah.
>> Yeah. And and so just a couple of
parallels that I thought were hilarious
is like my relationship with my wife was
also like it was funny. So, I decided to
become a monk.
>> Yeah. And and so I I came back and going
back to like finding girlfriends, right?
So like I had had a string of I couldn't
even call them relationships, just
failures at relationships. I had like
joined a fraternity in college. I was
like a junior in college and had tried
to date women and things like that for
like two year two years with with really
very little success.
>> Yeah.
>> Just a lot of bad habits. And then what
I realized is like the moment that I
decided to become celibate,
you know, like in my mind there was
still this ego of like, oh, I am
celibate. I am above. So, so I I had
taken this thing that I sucked at and my
ego had turned it into something that is
beneath me.
>> Yeah.
>> So, like I suck at doing well in school,
therefore I'm not going to be material.
And I suck at dating, so my ego is going
to twist that into I'm above all of
that.
>> Yeah. And then the big irony is that
like that was a huge step for me because
I had all this like internal stuff going
on. I had a subtler level of internal
stuff with the ego, but then I could
just be with her,
>> right? So she thinks I asked her out on
a date. I don't think I I I really
didn't ask her out on a date. Like
that's not what was in my head. It was
just like, okay, now I'm done dating
women, but like here's this person. I
can just show her around, right? She
likes Thai food and like let's go eat.
Um, and then the other funny thing is
that she's uh she like really makes fun
of me a lot in my spiritual journey.
Like I'm like super like hardcore and
she's like, "All right, whatever, bro."
>> You know, and and she mocks me
relentlessly and and I realized that
like that is also like a karmic thing
that like helps me. And it used to
bother me a little bit.
>> Yeah.
>> Or not a little bit, it used to bother
me a lot. And then now I've like come to
learn how to laugh at myself and like
the and that helps with the spiritual
ego of like having no ego. On the good
news, you'll have teenagers soon.
>> You'll get more of it.
>> Great.
>> It's the best part of teenagers.
>> Yeah, I may I may need your help with
that. But um and so the the where I sort
of end up with the story is like I do
think that there are particular
mechanisms of that I think trigger that
transcendent understanding.
>> Yeah. And if we're really thinking about
like how to become charismatic, that
authentic self, I do think that there
is, if we look at the anthropological
and historical research on revolutionary
figures,
>> some of them have this like what I would
call conduit to divinity.
>> Y
>> which you kind of say is is everybody's
birthright. I sort of agree.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and I think it's their birthright,
but not necessarily in this birth.
>> Right. Yeah. Yeah. I don't have that.
Yeah, I don't. Yeah, I'm with you.
Meaning I don't have that um
>> I don't have that overlay.
>> Yeah. So I I think that overlay is a
great word. So I I have an overlay that
I put over like over this that is that
is quite like mechanistic.
>> Yeah.
>> Um in terms of you know cultivating that
connection to your true self which
involves dissolution of ego. I'm like
100% convinced that your steps will get
anyone there.
>> Yeah. A and then I think there's all
kinds of other like dimensions
to to kind of go in in terms of like the
intentional cultivation. So I think the
big maybe split in our spiritual
journeys is at some point I started and
I also had issues with like ego and
authority and and stuff like that. But
>> my big thing was so then I I wanted to
learn like the science of it,
>> right?
>> So how do you cultivate a connection
with the divine? How do you channel that
energy? And I know that sounds weird,
but I mean literally like there will be
physiologic changes, cognitive changes,
emotional changes.
>> Yeah,
>> there states of consciousness, blood
flow to different parts of your brain.
We know that there is a physical
side of this coin.
>> Yeah.
>> But trying to activate the physical side
doesn't work. You need to sort of do the
spiritual side and then the physiology
kind of follows.
>> Yeah. Like I think his name's Newberg.
It's like he has the the neuroscientist
with all the like neuroscient like the
scientific features of awakening and he
did all the studies with did all the
studies with like free writing and
different kinds of prayer and everything
and like
>> Oh, interesting.
>> I I'll get you the book. I've done some
I've like dabbled but I haven't gone
deep. Yeah.
>> And and and so I I mean that's kind of I
just wanted to respond and like I'm kind
of curious like where yall are, where
yall want to go like
>> Yeah. Uh so what are the like the
cultivation part like what what what
specific things are you be are you
talking about there that I'm that I'm
>> so so so I I I okay so let's like start
with the model right so you have
unawareness
>> then you have awareness of your mental
and emotional functioning
>> that comes with regulation of that so
you're trying to exert control one part
of your mind
>> or one part of you is trying to control
another part of you
>> yes
>> then we have the dissolution of that the
wealth welcoming. We're not going to
have any kind of internal resistance.
>> Once internal resistance goes away,
>> this solves a lot of people's general
problems. I'm anxious around people. I'm
trying to control, oh my god, like what
does this girl think? I'm on a date.
It's a first date. Am I doing well? Am I
not doing well? As long as you're stuck
in your head, you're not being empathic.
You're not being connected to her or
him. And then like, so you're not going
to form that connection. So your anxiety
is sabotaging things. So we need
>> singularity of self,
>> right? So we need like a unity of like
not fighting yourself, welcome your
emotions, all that kind of stuff.
>> I think this is where
>> there so beyond that is where there's a
whole process. So this is where what
I've sort of found is is there are
intentional. So if we look at conduit to
whatever else is there when our default
mode network deactivates when we use
psychedelics when we have meditative
awakenings
>> there are um when endogenous DMT starts
uh producing in our brain we have a
connection to something beyond us. Yeah.
>> Now I think this is like may sound
woowoo but I think it's like actually
scientific. So you can do psychedelics
who will consistently report
how do I drive indogenous DMT
production.
>> Yeah.
>> And so there are certain things like
holotropic breath work I think is like
one physiologic state that will sort of
do it. But then there are all of these
like esoterics practices. I don't know
what you ended up learning but like I
started studying a lot of tantra
>> um and you know doing kundalini
practices condundalini like chakra
practices
>> um and then I sort of found that there
are consistent ways and this is a lot of
what I teach and and you know
>> there are jokes that I'm a cult leader
>> right yeah
>> um and and the only way I avoid being a
cult leader is by telling everyone I'm
not your guru like we could absolutely
go down that road there's a hilarious
joke in our community about But
>> you know there are certain practices
that are are kind of focused condalini
practices
>> that will trigger connections to things
beyond through me right that'll get rid
of the me
>> there there are many ways to get rid of
the me but I think in in my system or
what I really like hunger for
>> is like a certain kind of dissolution of
me. So I had a guru and and I asked him
for a mantra about 21 years ago and he
asked me like do you want spiritual
success or material success and at the
time I had sort of like was failing out
of college and was and I was like can I
have both and he's like yes there is
like a mechanism to have both
>> and so what I found is really bizarre is
in my journey like I've become very
materialistically successful
>> and also I didn't have to like sacrifice
spirituality right there's this idea
that you have to pick one or the other
but if people are paying attention to
the
>> threat You don't the two actually come
together.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> Right. And I I I know you work with some
some truly remarkable human beings who
have done great great things and as you
help them spiritually awaken their
companies start skyrocketing in terms of
productivity. That's been my experience
too. I just work with a lot more
degenerate 25-year-olds living in their
mom's basement. Um and so there there
are all kinds of like tantric
techniques. So I I'm a huge fan of
tantra because it it directly activates
>> um you know you'll get chakra awakening
if you do what you do. There's no doubt
in my mind. But then there are certain
things that
>> supposedly on an energetic level or
bronic level or whatever on a spiritual
level will like open those up more.
>> Yeah. Abs. Yeah. Absolutely. I
what I what what's interesting to me is
how many there are. Yeah,
>> I thought there was like maybe and one
of the reasons I think that we were
lucky is we were born in a time where we
could have a whole bunch of teachers
>> and
like absolutely when when people are
doing the experiments that we do in our
course a lot of that is like creating
that we have a one exercise in
particular where I've been meditating
for 20 years to find this place and you
do it in a five you Joe like that like
that
>> but and so I do think that there's like
a tremendous amount of and what's
interesting to me is there's relational
ones, there's ones all in yourself,
there's ones with breath and and what
where I am confused in this or not
confused means I'm trying to find a
solution. So I'm not confused in that
way. But but what I what I don't
understand in this is this it seems to
me that there's there's somewhat of a
choice that I think we we as humanity
like to have a construct of one that
we're typically in the center and two
there's typically an end and three
there's typically one way and all of
them always are proven to be false.
We're not in the center of the universe
as it turns out. The sun is the earth is
not in the center of the sun. you know
the sun's not revolving around the earth
etc like we just consistently
and what the way I I I think about
awakening now or the process now is
there is a flowering but there happens
to be 10,000 forms of flowers
>> and it's not like you don't look into
the garden you're like oh humanity has
flowered and it's all roses
>> that's so interesting because I both
agree and disagree with what you said
>> great that's yeah
>> right so so you are at the center of the
universe. There is one way and I forgot
what the third thing.
>> Oh, absolutely. Yeah.
>> Right.
>> Totally. Totally. Yeah. That's like the
Tibetan saying, um, mind is wide as the
sky, action is fine as barley flour.
Meaning that I can conceive of all the
different thought processes, but there's
only one action I can take.
>> Yeah. So, so it's it's interesting
because this moment I say I disagree
with what you said, you're like, yeah,
yeah, yeah. Every time.
>> So, you know, my experience has been
that, and here's just I'm going to just
toss out words. Yeah. So each person has
their unique karma right? So your
genetics are unique, your experiences
are unique, your thoughts are unique,
your psychological traumas are unique,
your strengths are unique.
>> You are at the center of your universe
like literally. Yes.
>> Right. And you can't be anywhere else.
You you're like half the not half the
problem with 99% of my patients is that
they're trapped in their lives. Right.
They can't get to live anybody else's
life before they come to me and I
imagine before they come to you what
they're really trying to do is live a
life that is not theirs.
>> Yes.
>> Right. So, so and then the issue becomes
how can we understand and this is where
I think the the clinical training kind
of comes in. You know if a patient comes
in and says my stomach hurts there is a
system to figure out what is the right
move for that person. And similarly
there is a spiritual system of
diagnosis. Where is your energ which
which uh places your energy in and your
chakras? Um and I think you I'm sure you
know this. I I'm sure you have an
intuition of me in the same way that I
have an intu intuition of you. Right. So
you have
>> and so then then my my goal has been
like okay from like a outcomes
perspective.
>> Yeah. Which meditation practice do I
teach this person given their cognitive
fingerprint
>> given their like you know is this person
focused on improvements in depression?
This is the work that I was doing at at
Harvard in terms of research. I was
developing clinical protocols that were
meditation regimens to target particular
illnesses and and then I started doing
this whole thing. So that sort of went
by the wayside. But e even from a
community standpoint, we'll still
develop very particular meditation
regimens that are tailored to uh a
certain kind of if you have this kind of
ego problem, if you have this kind of
like um if you're if you have trouble
waking up in the morning, um a big part
of it is like if you've got ADHD, a lot
of the traditional teachings are going
to be hard for you to access.
>> Yeah. And and so going back to, you
know, the 16 gurus that you assembled
for like the the
>> the wrestling of the gurus,
>> you know, one of the things that I found
really frustrating is I never went to a
guru or almost never went to a guru,
especially when they're like established
traditions. Like if you go to like learn
transcendental meditation or like
vipasana or anything like that,
>> I've never heard any of those traditions
say, "Oh, we're not the right teachers
for you. You should really go do
something else."
>> Yeah. or or I've never heard any of them
say you should do multiple traditions.
Yeah. Almost all are like you need to
dedicate to this.
>> Absolutely.
>> And of course they say that because they
got all this benefit from this by
dedicating to it or they wouldn't be
teaching it. So I get why they say it
but yeah. And so the the one thing I
would kind of sum like finalize with and
not is that if people are sort of
sitting there like how do I get started?
Right. So the one thing that I would say
is what I liked about what my my uh guru
taught me that I sort of do is I like to
start with the agna chakra because if
people don't understand so for those of
y'all that understand what Joe and I are
talking about like I'm not quite sure
what to tell you except keep doing what
you're doing.
>> This is part of your karma. This is one
step that's going to bring you closer.
If you'll get what we're saying totally
fine. If you want to understand it more,
>> yeah,
>> not if you want it to happen, not if you
want it to work, but if you want to
understand it more, well,
>> a third eye practice like thratika,
which is uh candle gazing, like where
you like just stare at a candle for like
1 to 5 minutes without closing your
eyes. You don't want to strain yourself
or anything like that, is a great place
to start that intuitive understanding of
like get it energy.
>> Um, I don't know how else to say that. I
don't know if that makes sense to y'all,
but
>> yeah, the the only thing that I would
say that's I I definitely have not
gotten to the place where I am saying
I mean obviously when I do coaching I I
read what's where somebody is and I and
I
>> but generally the way that I approach it
is
I I feel like we have all humans have
this innate migratory path in us.
Meaning that the way that a salmon knows
how to
get back to we have this thing that
pulls us into our own development.
>> The way a tree knows how to extend
towards the sun, we have our own way of
knowing how to extend tends towards the
sun. And so generally what I'm trying to
do is I'm trying to I'm following that
in the person like and so and often when
I'm working with people the way it
experiences it's a it can be very
aggressive looking from the outside but
it's I'm pinging against them and like
listening to the sonar that comes back.
Yep.
>> To say, "Oh, this is where they're ready
to move." I definitely haven't taken it
apart the way you have. It would be
really cool to like study that. But um
but but but but I'm definitely
pattern recognition is happening. But
the what the other thing that's
happening is I'm really letting them
lead because somehow or another what
I've noticed is and it might not be the
most efficient path but it is a more
efficient path than the other ones I've
run across which is to to that that
person knows where they need to go next
better than I do.
>> Absolutely right. So so I I think that
um
>> so because it's tricky like how do you
surrender? or how do you accept, how do
you welcome?
>> And and I think that if you if we look
at the themes of like today, it's kind
of getting out of your own way, right?
Letting that gravitational pull, like
stop pulling against gravity, which is
exactly what's so terrifying. But people
look at, you know, if you've been stuck
your whole life and you're trying to
figure out how do I be charismatic? How
do I be charismatic? How do I be
charismatic? And then you're like, just
be yourself. Well, there that's like a
pile of a mess down there. I'm with you.
But even underneath that, right? So if
you like before you had all those harsh
lessons in life, before life kicked you
when you were down, like what were you
that's still in there?
>> Yeah.
>> And and just stop the patterns that are
enhancing it.
>> And and what I'm really hearing from you
is like just let that natural
gravitation
>> of what you kind of feel called to do.
There's a voice in you
>> that is not like a panicked voice that
you fight against. Right.
>> Right. So I'll call this like sometimes
like
>> quiet voice.
>> It is. Right. So you you need to it
needs to be very quiet for you to
listen.
>> Yeah.
>> There's a message in the silence.
>> Yes.
>> And and get out of the way of fighting
against something and just whatever come
just like let it come and then there's
that natural gravitation.
>> Yeah.
>> And I I I loved your imagery of like
sonar, right? So you yall can also have
internal sonar of whatever you think
just let it come and let it pass. And
then like what's underneath what's
underneath what's underneath? That's
also the, you know, I I recently
>> got into Raman Maharshi
>> and and it it's so pure.
>> Yeah.
>> But I think it's like the last time I
looked at it was like 15 years ago and I
just wasn't ready for it yet.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. The the only thing that I
would add into that is just the the life
without life without tension without
there's no life. If I took the tension
out of your lungs or your cells, you'd
be dead. Without tension, there's no
pleasure. If you ever like feel pleasure
and you're like, "Okay, I'm going to
take all the tension out of it." There's
no pleasure. There's no aliveness
without tension. And so,
as humans, we're trying to get out of
tension on some level. And it's it's
such an interesting way to think about
tension as, oh, how do I hold this ever
more gently? And so to some degree, so
much of this dissolution
comes from the receiving or how do I
hold this even more gently, particularly
in our society particularly, but I know
that it's it's not there for everybody.
>> Yeah. I I think, you know, one response
to that is like you're you're and I I'm
with you 100%. So, you know, I think
most people want one side of the tension
to win.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That's right. And if if
people are struggling to understand
like, you know, why would I want
tension? Like why would I embrace that
tension? This is also where like you're
like a heart chakra dude. So like
holding things gently is like not my my
jam,
>> you know? I'm like like
>> embrace it like be in the middle. Get
torn apart by it. Like you can hold it
gently.
>> Also that
>> Yeah, definitely. I've said that.
>> So like like get torn apart like get
wrecked, bro.
>> Yeah. Anything that you can find to
destroy yourself lets you know what you
can't be destroyed in you.
>> Well said.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> So, so um and then I think if people if
that's confusing to people just like if
you play video games, you know exactly
what I mean,
>> right? So the moment that a video game
you start winning at a video game all
the time, the moment that loss gets
taken off the table,
>> as soon as gone is Yeah.
>> There's no game,
>> right? There's no game anymore. There's
no fun.
>> There's no joy in it.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Right. And we're winning and losing in
video games every single day. That's why
we play them. I don't know if you play
video games, but
>> League of Legends noob over there, Dota
noob over here. Right. So, so and that's
what makes it fun.
>> Yeah.
>> And and the whole problem is if if
people are saying like and people will
come to me like, "But that's a game.
It's not real." Right. So, how do you
get past that? And that's where I think
we come back to ego.
>> Yeah.
>> Because what makes your life
>> not a game? It's your ego. It's your
investment. It's me. Oh my god.
>> Right. That's what makes us afraid of
failure. That's why we have to be a
certain way because we're so invested in
it. But I think the more gently you hold
it, the more you start like playing
around. And I think this is what's
hilarious about both of our our wives is
they taught us how to play
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Right. They taught us like like you can
just chill like so what if you get
screwed?
>> Yeah. Exactly. You know, and I and I
remember Charlie had sort of sent us
this question about confidence and
charisma. And I think like a lot of
people think that confidence
is what makes you charismatic
>> and that competence makes you
charismatic, right? So competence is
what makes you confident and confident
it was what makes you charismatic. But
there's a really interesting kind of
that's sort of not true.
>> So if you look at people who are
incredibly competent,
>> there's als they're not confident. Nope.
>> They have imposttor syndrome.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So, we literally have a basically
a clinical entity at this point that
shows you that you can be really really
really good. Um I I did my uh I went to
medical school at Tufts and I I did my
psychiatry training at at Harvard. And
what I found is like there was very
little imposter syndrome at Tufts, but
the second I showed up at Harvard,
there's a ton of imposter syndrome.
>> Oh, that's cool.
>> And there are so many more competent,
arguably people at Harvard than there
are at Tufts.
>> Yeah. And so everyone's chasing this
idea that if I get really good at
something, I will be confident.
>> Yeah.
>> And if I can be confident, someone who's
charismatic is someone who walks into
the room and like is confident in
themselves, right?
>> So what I would say is that
>> competence doesn't lead to confidence.
And if you guys don't believe that, all
you need to do is look at a one-year-old
trying to feed themselves.
>> I'm going to tell y'all they suck at it,
but they still have a ton of confidence.
>> Yeah. And so in my experience, I'd love
to get your thoughts about this.
Competence doesn't lead to confidence.
>> Agreed. Yeah.
>> Confidence for me comes from and what I
try to encourage people to do is not
fearing failure,
>> right? So to to survive failure is
really when you can be confident. When
you fall down and you you pick yourself
up,
>> then you can afford to fall down. Yeah.
>> Then you can afford to like walk into a
situation, not know what's going to
happen, and still be confident.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, there's so many thoughts
on that tennis ball machine coming.
Yeah.
>> Sweet.
>> Get wrecked.
>> Exactly.
>> Your turn.
>> Um Yeah. So, um the first thing about
like to touch on imposttor syndrome for
a minute, this is one of my favorite
things to say to people and they're
like, I have imposter syndrome. I'm
like, that's cuz you're an imposttor.
Cuz you don't know what the you're
doing. I don't know what the I'm
doing. I made this up. Bezos made that
up. Like Elon Musk, we all made it up.
Like that's like no, we don't know. If
we knew what we were doing, we wouldn't
be doing anything innovative.
>> And so yeah, so there's a thing. So if
you look for how to get out of imposttor
syndrome, it's impossible because the
the the issue is you are an imposttor.
The other thing that's interesting that
you said I totally agree that once you
recognize that you can
that you have overcome challenges but
there's a recognition part of it meaning
today I was um walking on the beach with
one of my daughters who was worried
about something and she and I was like I
don't get it like when have you failed
when have you not not succeeded and it
took her a minute but once she
recognized Oh, right. And she could you
some of her could relax. Meaning that
it's not just yes, we've gotten down
when we're up over and over again or
we've we've pushed ourselves past where
we and we've gone into the difficult
thing. We've allowed ourselves to get
wrecked. It's also the recognition that
that has happened and you've done that I
think is also like a super important
part of that.
>> Absolutely.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> I think it's the more important part,
but I think it's less accessible.
>> Correct. Yeah. So, so, so generally
speaking, what I find works faster but
dirtier is just fail.
>> Yeah, definitely. Definitely,
definitely.
>> So, just fail and then then you realize
it's nothing to be afraid of.
>> So, and so, so there's the henula in the
brain. I think I got that right. Which
is the part of our brain that like moves
dopamine around and it's basically in
all vertebraes and it makes it so that
we don't fail over and over and over
again.
>> And so, because I don't want to eat that
same mushroom again and die. I don't
want to fight the same bear and get my
butt kicked again for mating rights.
That's the part of our brain. And so one
of the things that I noticed that's
really good about it is and we use this
as principles in companies is that it's
not you set up a situation where you
can't fail but you're failing. Meaning
that you're iterating, you're constantly
iterating. And the science, as I
understand it, is that they did this
research, which I really dug, of people
who didn't have any money, who lost
weight compared to those who didn't. And
the ones who did had an iterative
mindset, had a constant, oh, I'm going
to try a new thing. I'm going to try a
new thing. I'm try a new thing,
>> which is something that
>> you have, I have, Charlie has. And and
what I noticed it is the only thing that
is pretty much
uh constant for people who are
successful
and maintain that that they're not like
a one hit they're not island boys or
something like that right they they
basically are consistently
>> working and I think it's absolutely but
there's a great trick which is to not
even see it as failure to go in and then
say oh I can iterate again I can iterate
again I can iterate again because then
all life Fizz is an iteration and a
learning process.
>> Yeah, I I I mean completely agree. So So
there's one really interesting thing. So
I was at when I was at Harvard, I was
>> basically a a resident who was focused
on resilience for residents and interns.
>> Right. So you get a bunch of these kids
and I I had a buddy of mine and I asked
him, you know, what's your first year
like? And he's like, it's awful. And I
was like, why? and he said,
"It's terrible to take a bunch of kids
who used to be the smartest in the room
and suddenly make them average.
>> It's traumatic.
>> It's really scary."
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So, there's something that really great
that I kind of stumbled into and I
didn't figure out until you're sort of
the mechanism behind it. But there's
something called the nemic effect, which
is the way the right way to give
feedback around failure. So, a lot of
people think that if someone like, you
know, you have this compliment sandwich
where it's like, "Joe, you're great at
this."
>> Oh, yeah. sandwiches.
>> Yeah. I I call it ex exactly. Yeah. It's
a sandwich, right? Bread on the
top, in the middle, bread in the
bottom. Right.
>> Very ineffective.
>> And And people know right away,
empathically, they know right away that
you're just saying that, right? So
there's something really interesting.
>> You're tell you're calling them weak.
>> You're saying, "Hey, here's the thing.
You can't handle it. You can't handle
it." So you're not only saying, "Are you
wrong?" But you're weak. Absolutely.
It's a horrible way to do it. Yeah.
>> So So what what works really well is
when you tell someone they have a
shortcoming, but tell them what it what
it is in service to. So, hey, this is
what you're good at and be authentic.
It's not a compliment sandwich. And and
like you have the potential to be a
really great doctor, but as long as this
is going on, you're never going to get
there.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. So, like giving feedback in
service to a greater thing, right? Which
I think touches on these themes of ego.
It's more than you. You can afford to
fail. Your failure is an iteration. So,
how do you develop an iterative mindset?
everything that you have. The only
difference between a failure and a
setback is whether you keep going or
not.
>> Yeah. Right.
>> So, so, so this is where I'll geek out
for a minute. My experience is
that way that you just talked about
feedback. The it's effective because
you're doing it in this non-judgmental
way. Basically, you're you're not you're
not calling them wrong or right. You're
just kind of being
I'll give you an example. I was actually
uh by the coast, not too far away from
here, and this guy said, you know, Joe,
you're there's a while ago, "Joe, you're
a dick." And I was like, "I'm not a
dick." Da da da da. He's like, "Don't
fight it. There's no problem with it.
You're just a dick. Like, just be a
dick." And like I could take that
feedback because there was nothing to
defend against. And the way that you're
>> because there was no there was no you're
wrong, you have to change. There was no
shame coming at me. There was no trying
to and what I'm hearing from you is that
that's some version of that is what's
happening and giving that level of
feedback and my experience is we give
that level of feedback. This is where
I'm tying the heart back into it. We
give that level of feedback when we are
not trying to not feel something.
>> Yeah. So I I I would use slightly
different language. I think we're
talking about the same ballpark of
thing, but I would say there is a
judgment. the difference. So, let me
just I'm sure we agree.
>> Yeah.
>> So, so I I think that when you say
judgment, ego comes with it,
>> right? So,
>> I'm not saying discernment and you're
saying discernment,
>> right? So, like when I'm like literally
when there's like an intern who's like
ordering a bad medication, right, that
the patient is allergic to, I want to
make a judgment and I want to say this
is bad.
>> Correct.
>> The reason that becomes difficult and I
think this is what you mean by judgment
is this is bad becomes you are bad.
>> Correct. That's right. And and so when
you can lovingly and compassionately not
trigger the ego,
>> right?
>> Right. So you can give a judgment and
oftenimes judgment comes with ego. But
if you can tease those things apart and
the re the way you disable the ego is
what is this in service to? You will be
a doctor one day. Yeah.
>> That will be great. But if you give your
medication if you give patients
medications that they they're allergic
to, you will never be a great doctor.
>> Yeah. To absolutely. And the but the the
the heart point that I want to want to
point to is that what I notice is when
ego is involved when
>> I'm going to call you bad. It's because
we don't want to feel something.
>> I do that to another person.
>> When I'm in that level of judgment with
people, what I notice is it's because I
don't want to feel something.
>> And it's that's the amazing that's where
the heart chakra comes in so much for me
and and how it disintegrates just as an
example of how it disintegrates that
sense of self.
>> Yeah. So I think it's that's heart
chakra. Here's third eye chakra. So ego
arises to protect well same thing. Ego
arises to protect you from negative
emotions.
>> So as long as there is negative emotions
that are unacceptable, ego will arise.
>> That's right.
>> Right. So like if it's like oh like that
girl turned me down like I didn't like
her anyway. She would have been lucky to
date me.
>> Or I'm bad and I'm horrible because she
didn't like me. Both.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Both can be there, right?
So, so I I I think your heart chakra
will absolutely get you there because if
you just accept the emotion, then the
ego has nothing to defend against.
There's nothing wrong with the emotion.
>> It's a great way. Yeah, exactly.
>> Yeah. Cool.
>> Nerding out complete.
>> We are. Yeah. Not complete. We're going
to stop for a minute. Yeah.
>> Like,
every once in a while, I catch Charlie
out of the corner of my eye. He's like,
>> so I I think I think if people are are
listening to this, the key thing is
like, you know, this is also something
that I think is really important. Often
times when people listen to things like
this, they think to themselves, "What am
I taking away? What do I do?"
>> Yes.
>> Just listen.
>> So parts of your brain are going to be
absorbing it.
>> Yeah.
>> You won't notice it right away a month
from now. And this is what happened with
both of us. I'm 110% sure.
>> Yes.
>> We read things that we did not
understand, but it planted a seed in
your subconscious mind. And as you go
about living your life, as you have
these experiences, one day you're going
to be taking a piss and it will click.
>> Yeah. Exactly. I would even say allow
yourself not to try to get it.
>> Yep.
>> Right. What I noticed is when people
start trying to put it together and
construct a world around it, it slows
the process down tremendously.
>> That is what you would say. That is
exactly
>> and then I would and then I would agree
with you that a construct is actually a
really great thing to have and it's very
useful at times
>> construct it.
>> And I I I and I think this is the the
key thing is like if we're what we're
talking about here is kind of like you
know there are multiple ways to get to
this core thing.
>> Yes.
>> And and so do whatever works for you. If
you're you're an auditory person, talk
out loud. That's right.
>> If you're a visual person, write it
down. And and that's the thing is like I
think what Joe and I are talking about
today are principles.
>> Yes.
>> That you have to modify based on your
genetics, your circumstances, where you
are. These are tools.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And there is an art to
accomplishment.
>> Yes.
>> Right. It's not like a perfect science.
You have to sort of figure out like it
just at some point it'll click. It'll
feel right.
>> Yeah. It's funny. Um, the first thing I
ever wanted to do, first piece of uh,
content I ever wanted to do, I never did
it, was to get four different awakening
teachers all ask the same 20 questions
to hear how different the the answers
would be, but they're all pointing to
the same thing.
>> And I feel like we get to do that a
little bit. like we get to like it was
really nice to be able to
>> and and there for whatever reason the
our ability to not get lost in the
semantics or the ego of my way or your
way that we can see
>> the wisdom and I think that that that in
itself is like probably the more
powerful pointer in the conversation is
>> for the people who are listening that
the like we're it's one level you could
say it's more important for us to find
the wisdom in each other. The other the
more important thing is that we we know
that we're all pointing in the we're
pointing in the everybody's pointing in
the same direction. I think that that
including you, including the person
who's listening who thinks that they're
at war with themselves. There's
something in you that's also doing this.
>> Yeah. I I I think um
I'm just debating about so so I I I
think a lot of what Joe and I are
talking about cannot be done
but if you listen to it you will hear it
happening right here.
>> Yeah.
>> And that's exactly what you need to do
>> do. Okay.
>> Right.
>> Yeah. Words get
>> and and like if if it's confusing and it
doesn't make sense like that's kind of
the point. So I think a lot of this like
transcend like the breakthroughs in your
life are not things that you logically
concluded. Yes.
>> They're when when your logical framework
actually fell apart and you discovered
something beyond that.
>> Yeah.
>> And and that's it's really hard to do.
Arguably impossible. But that doesn't
mean you can't do it, but that doesn't
mean that it can't be done,
>> right? Yeah. It can't Yeah. You can't
make sure your soil's good.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Your turn, Charlie.
>> All right.
>> Exactly. You want to talk about Donald
Trump, I guess.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, no. I I at somebody's
like, I got to take my hands off this
wheel and just let this happen. Um
>> Yeah. No,
>> you may want to edit it out. I think
>> No. Well, I I I have two. That's what I
like. Like, yeah, maybe one of us.
>> I I felt like we had separated.
>> Our listeners would love this.
>> Ex. And And not that it's not for I was
just like something is happening and I
just this is part of my practice is like
get the out of the way like
>> Yeah. So I think it's a great
representation of what we're talking
about.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um no it's it was it was
challenging for me to track the part of
me and this is an interstitial uh that
wanted to get the title right and fix
you know and and make it go a certain
way but it was um like this is your
practice is there is an energy that is
moving through the room right here. Um
so thank you guys. Yeah. Yeah.
>> So what I what I hear is manipura naval
>> heart and third eye. So naval chakra is
really important for the metabolism of
emotions.
>> So like divine love and the acceptance
and the welcoming comes here. But the
getting the so this can wash away the
bad stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> But when you even in interviews when you
focally like when you pull out your
sniper rifle and you like shoot at an
emotion, right? And that emotion gets
resolved like that. That's naval. That's
not hard.
>> That's true.
After you do that a couple of times,
>> then heart opens up and then they like
get it and they feel whole, but you've
been like sniper rifling like
>> rats in their warehouse for a little
while before that. Let's jump right
there. So, you guys both have these
conversations with people on the
internet. You coach.
>> Yeah.
>> Tell me. Yeah. You're listening from
your gut. you're picking up things like
what what is going on as for both of you
because you're what I see is you seem to
make people have these intellectual
breakthroughs where they sort of see
themselves in a different way. And I've
also and you'll people will cry or laugh
or just unfold or unwind in some way.
>> Yeah.
>> And what is going on in each of those
encounters, those ways of being?
>> The the most most essential is I'm
listening. My experience is I'm
listening. I'm listening to myself. I'm
listening to them. Um, I'm I'm I'm
vulnerable in the listening and in the
asking of questions. I'll often ask
questions where I literally pucker to
ask the question and I usually know that
that's a really good question. There's a
feeling of vulnerability.
>> There's a deep impartiality in me, even
though it doesn't look like it, where I
I don't think I need to get that person
anywhere. I'm not there to help them.
this isn't there's just there's not a
lot of I in the equation. So oftentimes
at the end of it I don't remember what
happened. I don't know if it went well
>> and I don't care. It's like none of
that. When I say I don't care I don't
mean I try not to care. I mean I don't
even conceive of it care.
>> Um and then deeply empathetic. I'm
feeling the thing they're feeling. So
often times if I'm working with somebody
and I'll say, "Yeah, what's going on in
your gut? I can't even see it." But
because I'm so empathetically in with
them that I I'm actually I'm able to
feel it. I feel it through my own body,
through my own system.
>> How does So, we've talked about that.
You said that naval or the umbilical
cord. How do we feel that more
effectively? How do we attune
empathetically?
Is is that something we've already
discussed? So what my experience
generally and I think this isn't a place
where we might we might might disagree.
Um
there's a a Zen story about a young and
an old monk walking down the path and
the young monk says, "Oh, I can start to
like know what people are thinking." And
he's like, "Ah, what does that have to
do with awakening? Oh, I can read
people's thoughts. What does that have
to be awakening?" Like as he walks
through, he's going having all these
different things. And my experience is
that if you go after trying to figure
those skills out,
>> um, it can be incredibly destructive. It
can be like chasing money. It can be
like chasing sex. It's it it can really
destroy somebody. It can create a much
um more solid form of ego. Whereas if
you allow that stuff to unfold naturally
because of your own self-awareness. So
that's how I would recommend the path I
would recommend is to understand
yourself more and more and more and more
and the more you understand yourself
this stuff naturally occurs. So tuning
to your own gut, to your own heart.
>> Correct.
>> And then when you're listening to
someone, you'll just feel it's like,
"Oh, I feel."
>> Yeah. So I did this form of breath work
for like uh seven years or so where it
was kind of an extinct form of Reiki and
breath work that I would do. And when I
was 2 three years into it, I could look
at somebody's body and know what
emotions they were holding and like how
they were raised. Not because anybody
said this arc means critical parent and
this means like I'm an available mother,
>> right? It was because I actually just
>> went through all that stuff in myself.
>> Ah,
>> and so that's the way I recommend doing
it because that's the thing that
actually gets you to the freedom that
you're really looking for beyond the
power of being able to do it.
>> Yeah. I've I've had at times a
spreadsheet approach which is like, you
know, if you know, she posts these kind
of photos on Instagram, the dad wasn't
there, you know, whatever it is. And uh
yeah, one people don't like to be
analyzed that way, even if it's true.
And it is not actual empathy. It is
>> a repetition of what someone who had
empathetic atunement might might have
said in the moment. Yeah,
>> exactly.
>> Okay. So that makes sense. Go through
oneself and it'll just sort of unfold.
What's going on with you when you're
having your conversation?
>> My first question is what why did you
think that would be a point of our
disagreement?
because it sounded like there was some
part of the traditions that you had
it actually. Yeah. So it was an
assumption on my part about condundalini
work.
>> Okay.
>> Which is that often times there's
>> oh this is the thing that you will get
from this condundalini work that I've
seen in the real world. So that's where
I thought we might disagree.
>> Yeah. So I I I mean I don't think we're
going to disagree.
>> Okay. Okay. Great. Yeah. clearly when I
saw your
>> so so it was like you know cuz I I think
like and that's the key thing that was
an assumption that that you were not not
to blame you or anything right but like
that didn't come from me it come came
from your understanding of what
kundalini work is right so so in a sense
>> anyway I don't I was just kind of
confused because I was like no this is
like this is exactly this is it so
>> can I ask you a specific question about
this last time you were here we sat down
after and I started sharing with you
that you know there was stuff coming up
in my life and you're and you're like I
see that I like I said what do you mean
you see that and you said oh third eye
>> and I'm curious if you could elaborate
>> absolutely so so I I I think this is
what's really um
this is going to get like a touch
theoretical
>> sure
>> but not the touch theor I I realized
something recently
credibility is very far away from truth
>> so like
>> oh I love that
>> he gets it So, I'll I'll walk you all
through it.
>> So, if I want to say something that's
credible, let's say I want to say
something to you and I want to make
myself credible, how do I make myself
credible? If I'm talking to you,
>> you have to understand my world to a
degree in
>> I have to understand your world, right?
>> So, the more ignorant you are,
>> the more credible I have to be.
>> Mhm.
>> You kind of get that? So, credibility
only works when the like why do we need
credibility? Because we don't know. We
don't trust. We don't know that this
thing is true,
>> right? That's why we need to be
credible. I need you to believe me, but
believing requires an absence of
knowledge. Like by definition,
>> if I know where my keys are, that's
different from believing where my keys
are. One is a statement of fact and one
is a statement of belief. One is a
statement of ignorance.
So,
one of the things that I've uh started
to do recently is like worry less about
being credible. I showed up and I tried
to be credible. But what I realized is
like credibility assumes the ignorance
of the person. But truth is truth.
>> Whether people believe it or not is like
up to them. The more knowledgeable they
are, the more they will know that I'm
correct, which is why you laughed,
>> right? And and the less knowledgeable
they are, the more they'll they're
likely to think that I'm an idiot, which
is like, okay, I love this. I just want
to say you've helped me a lot with this
because the the phrase that I've
understood from you is it is not your
responsibility to be understood.
>> It is your responsibility to speak the
truth but I have often done the work of
being credible of making myself
understood and in such I'm diluting
>> the the me or whatever it is that I'm
saying.
>> So so I I think there are times where
it's important to be credible. So when
I'm a doctor
like I want to be credible first and
truthful second but there are times
where there there's there are times for
credibility and there are times for
truth. This is a conversation where I
think truth comes first.
>> Mhm.
>> So what Joe is describing you know as he
does this kind of work is in the
Sanskrit word this is a siddhi. I don't
know if you you've heard that term but
so so this is really fascinating.
There's like this thing called batangali
yoga sutras which is like the bible of
yoga. So if you like look at like the
seinal text on what we call yoga a dude
or maybe lots of people named Patanjali
woman we don't really know wrote this
text about what is an asa what is a
posture how does the mind work like it's
like all the really basic stuff that
modern science basically like follows
like all the stuff about meditation and
things like that like it's basically
rooted in pathundi or captured in bey
chapter it's four chapters the third
chapter is really short and it's just a
list of things. So he says like in
chapter one he's like an asa any yoga
posture has two requirements that's it
there all these postures downward dog
this that all the post asas have two
things in common one is that they're
it's stable it's not motion the second
is it brings the attention to the
present that's all an asa is you can
make whatever asas you want you can make
up your own yoga postures as long as you
are stable and you were focused on the
present that is the asa that's the
essence it's the equation chapter 3 is
the development of psychic powers and
he's like by the way. If you do these
practices, you will develop these these
powers. These things are not believable.
Fair enough. Whatever. They're not
credible. Fine. He just says, "By the
way, this is what's going to happen."
>> Addendum.
>> Not addendum. He's like, "If you walk
the spiritual path, you will develop
abilities that will appear
supernatural."
>> Appear.
>> Mhm.
>> Appear. Really critical word.
>> Yeah. Why we add it, right?
>> They're not supernatural.
>> They're just hard to access.
>> Mhm. And there's a whole conversation
which I I can go into a bunch of detail.
I' I've had a lot of I'm not saying I'm
psychic or anything like that, but there
there's like whole systems of
understanding this stuff, but these
things are also incredibly dangerous.
So I want y'all to understand, I think I
think Joe gets this. Um, so a little bit
of what we do seems exceptional.
It's not exceptional. So like people
will like I mean it's exceptional but
it's not supernatural. So people will
like ask me right so like I'm a
psychiatrist this is how I know what I
do. No I I I do what I do because of my
spiritual practice. Not psychiatry is
there and it has a role but my intuition
and what I know about people in the same
way that that Joe knows things about
people and stuff like that. I don't
think that that can be taught in
psychiatric training because if that was
taught in psychiatric training, the
majority of psychiatrists would be able
to do what I do. And and it's not that
what I do is special. It's just like if
you train in that way, you will learn
how to do that. Very simple. Joe has
trained in that way. I have trained in
that way, which is why we both do it.
You can train in that way. Anyone can
train in that way. A big part of what we
do in our community is try to teach them
that stuff so that they realize I'm not
special. You can do it too. It is your
birthright.
>> Right. So I I I get to where Joe gets
but like I come there from a different
way sort of.
>> Yeah. So the the other thing that's
really scary is like you know I see
these posts sometimes on the internet of
if I were a billionaire I would just
start fixing problems
and and
okay so this is like really a statement
of ignorance like the the moment that
you have great power and you start
exercising it you realize how much you
things up. So like the moment that
you have
something really powerful like let's
just say hypothetically I'm not even
saying these things exist okay there
there I've hypothesized neuroscientific
mechanisms through which we can do quote
unquote supernatural things it's not
really supernatural it's just a finely
finely in tuned empathic circuit
attending in the right way like all
kinds of stuff which we can get to in a
second about what I do how I would
explain what I do which I think is the
same as what you not the same but you
know the same
>> yeah
there's Absolutely a neuroscience there.
There must be a neuroscience correlate.
The question is does neuroscience
sufficiently explain it or is there
something beyond neuroscience? That's a
debate for philosophers. So what happens
though is the moment that you start
exercising
these powers, you get caught, you get
trapped by life in a in a way more
vicelike grip. And and I think this is
where like you know like you quoted a
Zen, you know, parable.
>> Yeah. I'm going to quote I think it's
notorious B.I. mooney mo problems
>> which like is really confusing for
people until you have it. The number of
patients that I've had that have
windfalls of cash flow speaking of
ketamine will will burn through millions
of dollars of drugs,
right? Like like their lives get and
it's not that money doesn't buy
happiness. It does. It buys happiness up
to a point. If you can't pay your bills,
like you have no financial security.
Money will absolutely remove the things
that get in the way of your happiness.
But at some point, the more power you
have, like you can get trapped by life
way easier.
>> Can I just What are these powers that
you're talking? And it doesn't mean so
you're using money as like a thing, but
do you mean that empathetic circuit? Is
that what you're saying?
>> No, I mean so I would refer you to the
text. I'm not making these claims. You
guys can read the text, but says if you
want telepathy, do this. If you want to
travel through time, do this. If you
want to turn into the size of an atom or
the size of a universe, do this.
>> If you want to know the moment of your
death, do this.
>> There's a really simple practice that I
can share with y'all.
>> If you just breathe, you'll notice that
your breath has a certain length. So, if
you like put your hand like face up
below your nose and you breathe out,
you'll notice that the breath goes a
certain way. If you do that practice for
a decade, you'll understand all kinds of
things. Okay. Got it. Okay. Got it.
>> Like you do it every day for like an
hour
>> for a decade. And and this is the time
scale that we're talking about.
>> I started doing a month of practice 21
years ago.
>> Mhm.
>> In my experience, there were basically
three
levels of stuff that I got through that
that were at sevenear stretches.
>> I don't know why it's weird,
>> but this is like consistent practice
every day for seven years. In the
culture that we live in, the reason that
everyone doesn't believe what meditation
is capable of is because they don't
understand the time scale. Everyone's
like, "Use this app for 5 minutes, do a
different guided meditation every day."
This is like telling someone, "Okay, I
want you to paint for 10 minutes today,
draw for 10 minutes tomorrow, go for a
swim 10 minutes the next day." If you
want to build something through
meditative practice, you have to do the
same practice, not necessarily every
day, but basically every day for years
or decades
>> in order to truly see the fruit of it.
>> So even even in my question of what are
you doing in that moment, it's like what
did I do for the prior 20 years is is
almost the answer.
>> Absolutely.
>> So so, so I think no, I would say that
that's not I would say there's a
distinction. So there is 20 year that's
not what he's doing. 20 years is what
his he has become. So there's a
difference between
playing an instrument and like playing a
guitar is different from becoming a
guitar. What he's been doing for 20
years is building a guitar. When he sits
with a person, he's playing the strings.
Does that make sense?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> So, here's what I would say he does,
which is what I do, which is just the
same but different.
>> The more empty you become, the more that
you remove your ego from the equation,
then you can attend fully to someone
else. M
>> the analogy that I would use this is
also like a meditative kind of thing
which which is like the the story of two
cups. So this guy comes to to the Buddha
and he's like I've studied with a bunch
of teachers. I'm not enlightened yet.
Help me out. And Buddha's like cool.
I'll help you out. So the Buddha's like
starts teaching him things. But the
guy's like but hold on a second. I
studied with this other guy and he said
this. And then Buddha the next day is
like okay whatever. So then do this. And
he's like I started with this other guy.
He did this. And then Buddha one day
tells him okay come back and then bring
two cups. bring a cup of water and bring
a cup of milk. He says, "Okay, now take
the cup of water. Take the cup of milk.
Pour the milk into the cup of water."
And the guy's like, "What? What do you
mean?" And I'd encourage everybody to
pause the video right now and do this at
home. Take a cup of milk. Take a cup of
water. Pour the cup of milk into the cup
of water. Have them both full at the
beginning. What happens?
>> The milk overflows.
>> If you want to learn something, you need
to empty your mind first. If you want to
sit with someone, you have to empty
yourself. When Joe says he attends to
people,
the key thing there is that he is empty.
So what the other person is enters him
and then he attends to himself. But it's
not what he feels. He is an instrument.
He's like a radio wave. He's like a
radio antenna picking up other things. M
>> but the more that you have your own
going on within yourself when I sit
down. So I can do this with random
strangers. I can never do it with my
wife. The moment I sit with my wife
>> and she tells me how annoying I am. I'm
like no I'm not. I am adding something
to the equation.
>> This is also why it's easier to talk to
strangers and listen to strangers
because there's no ego. There's no
relationship, right? You can talk to a
stranger on a park bench. pour out your
heart and soul and it is easy to do
>> because you there's an emptiness to it.
There's no ego. There's no attachment.
>> So I I would say that
he does it. I do it. I do it in a
slightly different way. So I I operate
from a different place. My antenna is
tuned to a slightly different frequency.
>> And my wife does it in a different way,
too. Like if it's like if
>> if if he's here on the spectrum, I'm
here on the spectrum. My wife is over
here on the spectrum. My wife will just
literally say almost nothing and
>> and she'll just what if you just put
that two inches behind yourself and like
to just another different way.
>> Well, this is what I this is what's
beautiful about it is that I used to
conceive of and you can bucket charisma
to there's types of people who have
really strong visions and type of people
who have high convictions and types of
people who are funny. But what I'm
hearing is, you know, if it is this
divinely offered gift, it comes in as
many different flavors as there are
people. And there are things that we
seem to be tracking and that there's an
emptiness, there's a listening, there's
a thing. But the way that your wife
shows up is going to be with her own
flavor. So in a way and this is what I'm
seeing in my own life. There was always
a seeking what's the right thing to say
now in this situation that I can
distribute in an online course and tell
everybody here's what to say to start
the conversation here's what to say 3
minutes into the conversation here's how
to get the date and that's helpful you
know to have the text message to send
the girl
>> it's necessary I think for me at a stage
to like
>> what do I text what do I text what do I
text give me like hey you know I know
this is crazy but would you like to go
out sometime okay I'm okay I can get
through it um but this is where I'm
super fascinated as this spiritual thing
connects with charisma and the Greek
word has just fascinated me. I was like
why did I pick charisma and there is
something there that was always there.
What is charisma on command? Can
>> can you open up to that you that uh
says the perfect thing that is you in
the moment instead of the objectively
perfect thing for the moment. I don't
know if that makes any sense but that is
okay. So given that that there's all of
these foundational things that are
established prior to that moment in the
moment for someone who you know
hopefully is also doing these practices
maybe taking your course or your course
or going through it in the moment. What
is something that can be done to begin
this process just or help it along a
little bit to get to that place of
emptiness or ability to
show up and listen in the way that is
most deeply effective or to say the
phrase that is most deeply effective or
even maybe my language is not even what
you would choose. I would give this one
as one of the one of the practices that
I noticed works really well
quickly and it works well because when
people taste it, they want to keep doing
it. So part of a practice is picking a
practice that you actually will keep
doing or it's
>> and
and this practice has a lifespan like
most of the things that I would I would
suggest most of the things would have a
lifespan and it might be 10 20 years but
it has a lifespan and
>> um but what I notice a great way is that
so typically we have a negative selft
talk or a repetitive voice in the head
according to I think it's a Mayo Clinic
it's like 50 to 60,000 thoughts a day or
something like that most of them
repetitive
and people at some point notice them and
then at some point they want to get rid
of them and but the more they resist the
more it persists and so it doesn't
actually change. So a very cool practice
that starts emptying you out really
quickly is every day or every 3 days
pick a way you want to react to that
voice in the head that you've never
reacted that way before. So typically
though what happens is the voice says
something and our response is
>> either yeah yeah you're right that's the
charismatic part of you that you're
following or it's sometimes
>> yeah you're right but
>> I'm not going to do it
like yeah I'm going to I'm still going
to eat that chocolate cake right those
are one of the reactions that we have
>> but you could have literally an infinite
kind
>> I was just thinking you could like clap
and have a ton of applause like the
birthday party a surprise party
>> you could yes you could you could say
you could say Um, you could say, "Wow, I
could really use you to be a better
boss."
>> Mhm.
>> Or you could say, "No."
>> Or you could say, "I see how scared you
are and I'm right here with you."
>> You can have literally a hundred
different responses.
>> What I'm noticing in me is that some of
those felt like, "Oh, I want that one."
And some of them didn't. So, even in
just listening to those options, I was
like, "Well, I like that last one the
best." Like I see.
>> And so, but my my recommendation is
experiment
>> for a while. just get to know h what
what happens to that internal selft talk
that we consider to be ush
>> what happens when you react to it
differently and I find just the
experimentation will help you unfold the
thing very very quickly
>> a lot quicker than than for me I I
notice people unfold it a lot quicker
than some early stages of meditation
even
>> and it's but it's really important the
critical point is you're not trying to
get rid of it and the critical point is
that it's an experimentation. You're
learning about it. You're you're in
wonder about it.
>> Mhm.
>> And if you can do that with the internal
self-t talk, it is an incredibly
effective tool. And I'm hoping that what
you're about to tell me is that there's
a Sanskrit word for this practice, but I
haven't seen any other I haven't seen
it.
>> So once again, Joe, I'm I'm impressed by
So I could give you an hourong lecture
about why that's a great practice.
>> Mhm. That's cool. But but but the the
two things that I would say is first is
if that practice is hard for you, I'll
give you guys an introductory practice
>> to cuz I I love it. I can't top that.
>> Yeah.
>> All I can do is give you an on-ramp onto
that if that's hard.
>> Mhm.
>> Um and that is brush with your
non-dominant hand.
>> Mhm.
>> So what what I strongly recommend people
do
>> totally that would totally work. That's
so good. So, so, so it's so hard with
the cognitions that we have there,
there's a whole I I it's so weird. So,
sometimes I'll do a lecture like that is
like deep spirituality and it clicks for
people. So, I did this lecture on vasas
which are basically repetitive mental
habits. Um, so great lecture that really
like popped and and so I'd say that the
problem with those is we're so engaged
with them, right? It's so challenging
and I I I know why Joe recommends this
because if you learn it from Joe, he's
going to teach it in a way where you can
do it that you can't do on your own.
Like I I I get that, right? So you give
them a certain amount of dika or
initiation that allows them to do it,
but it's really hard because those
repetitive thoughts are often times the
ones that are the hardest to resist.
It's the hardest to do something new. So
I just start with a little a touch of
neuroplasticity and practice the skill
of responding to things in different
ways. And the easiest way to do that,
brush with your non-dominant hand,
>> right? You can only do it for a couple
of days. Joe will give you something
that'll work for 20 years. Do mine for
like 3 days, then try Joe's if you're
having trouble. But if you can go
straight to Joe's, go straight to Joe's.
>> Great.
>> Yeah. That's a really great Yeah.
>> Yeah. I love all of this.
>> Okay. And part of the reason that I
didn't start down this path is because
when I looked out into the world, and it
wasn't the same guys at the time, but
when I look at a Donald Trump or an
Andrew Tate, I do not imagine that they
are doing this sort of a thing. And yet
they are incredibly influential uh
powerful people seem to follow them,
like them, trust them. Uh polarizing
figures for sure. What is going on? Like
if this if this takes you to the essence
of charisma, what is going on with these
seemingly charismatic individuals that
are that, as far as I can tell, have not
followed a path that is at all like
these ones? Um is that a pseudo
charisma? Is there something else going
on there? Is it what? How do you
understand it?
>> Yeah, what I noticed is this is a really
challenging topic because it's so we're
using two people who are very divisive
and so so to some degree
>> take the guy in your office who doesn't
appear to do this or something.
>> Yeah. Um so there's a couple things that
I would say is that uh um without
judgment on developmental scale or
anything like that.
Um
my daughters are three and a half years
apart.
What I notice is that's who kids adore
>> is like they listen to other kids that
are just slightly older than them more
than
>> my whole life. I have been following
reluctantly
questioning
the authorities that are just have a
little more understanding than I have at
this moment and I'm I'm following that.
So I think that there's
>> a natural
>> one part is I think there's a natural
piece to that. Um the other thing that's
interesting is that people really want
to buy the bridge. You know they really
want to buy we all really want to buy
the bridge until we don't. So there's
something natural in us in the
evolutionary path to have somebody who
has the answer, has somebody who feels
assured, who feels conviction, and we
want that. If you look at like whether
it's our rock stars or our politicians,
it's like there's something in us that
wants to feel safe. And if we follow
somebody who looks like they're assured
and and in their minds, they are. I
mean, empathetically, we they are
convicted. Yeah, there's a we're like
tuning in to like, oh, they they believe
this through and through.
>> They do. Yeah. That is a like and and if
they don't, the third time they say it,
they will. And so
>> so there's like this part of us that
it's like, oh, cool. There's some
conviction that I now I don't have to
actually take responsibility
>> for myself, then I think there's
something really that that that's
another part that makes it that we and
so some of it is this very natural thing
that we want. I think the other piece
that's occurring is that
as a society like we talked about like
as a society we want homeostasis. We
want balance as well. And so what I
notice is that when any side gets
righteous
>> when there's a if there's no naysayer in
the room eventually the naysayer comes
up. If any side gets righteous there's
the other part of it.
>> Yeah. And so,
but to me, the more the the the the more
um
great question, the the question that is
more productive, the more productive
question is when you're faced with
somebody like that,
>> what's what's how can they be an an
avenue to your freedom, to to your
unwinding, to your and can you see their
point of view? Can you understand the
value that they provide? Can you not see
their point? Can you see outside of
their point of view? Can you not see the
Can you use them as a way to dissolve
your ego?
assuming there's an ego but right that
that you can you use that person as a
way to dissolve and and it was funny you
said earlier this great thought of you
know there's a joke in your community
about being a guru and I if anybody says
calls me a guru oftent times what I'll
say is like I'm yeah I'm just like a
guru I'm just the next iteration where I
want all the power to be in your hands
not in mine and it's a good one right um
love it but the but it's the But it's
that same thing. It's like I if if that
person has you pissed off
>> or enraptured or
>> or enraptured, they got you.
>> They got you, right? That you're not
>> you're not actually in yourself anymore.
>> And you're and you there's so much to
learn about your trigger, about how
they're your projection or all that
stuff that can
>> get to your own freedom
>> instead of like h you know what makes
them that. It's interesting because the
opposition to Trump and the opposition
to Andrew Tate is arguably the thing
that has fueled
>> absolutely
>> the the and and that same thing is
occurring internally which is when you
see someone who is
>> so certain so this so that and you know
or what no they're not instead of like
what what breaks inside of me when I or
what hurts or what when I come into
contact with that. That's an interesting
practice.
>> Yeah. And and that's the and and we all
want to be able to fall Yes. take care
of me. And we all want to resist it.
It's like and all of that's in ourselves
and it's all happening
>> in ourselves.
>> If you're really bothered by Donald
Trump,
>> I guarantee you you have a voice in your
head that sounds a lot like Donald
Trump.
>> That just Yeah. This is how Yeah. No.
Yeah. Oh, interesting.
>> Yeah. And if you Right. So, so anyways,
that that's that's the place where I
think that there's freedom rather than
to
>> it's it's the I mean I'm I'm I like the
union psychoanalysis, but so for me I'm
conceiving like the return of the
repressed the the externalization of the
shadow in me which is when I look at it
it's this repressed power drive this
unashamed I want I take I that is out
there and I'm good with that and I have
no issue and then I look and we I know
you don't want to go into it but I look
at the left or the democrats it's
there's
hidden power drive, you know, that is
not claimed in the same way.
Interesting.
>> Yeah. I've working with CEOs a lot,
really powerful CEOs, what I notice is
if they
um fully are like, I want power and this
is power and dc incredibly dangerous
people. If they are fully, I don't want
power. I'm not the most powerful. They
are incredibly dangerous.
>> That was me. That was me. Not that I was
it is to it is like to acknowledge the
power that you have to to to not run
away from your narcissism to in to to
love all of that as well both
disintegrates it and also just on an
actionable level
>> makes you far safer
>> and it's the rejection of both and and
the or the grasping of both that makes
you dangerous and if you have lot a lot
of power.
>> Yeah. Did you anything that comes up for
you around that?
>> Yeah, so I you know I I love Joe's
answer and I'm going to give a
completely different one. Cool. So So I
I think um you know if we go back to
like the mechanism of okay there's the
sleazy charisma, there's the authentic
charisma. I think what a lot of people
will kind of potentially jump to is like
oh they have the sleazy charisma.
>> I think this is where the model Yeah.
That's not true.
>> It's not true.
>> I agree. So and and that's like their
own judgment, right? So I I think what
they really speak to is how much of a
diad charisma is. Mhm.
>> So why are they the ones that are
popular? There's a thousand people who
are saying a thousand things. They're
the ones who have floated to the top.
For someone to be charismatic in that
way, they must have an audience.
>> So if you want to understand why they
are charismatic, you must look to the
audience because they're the ones that
are watching them.
>> Mhm.
>> Y
>> So here's the harsh truth that I think
not many people are willing to accept.
So if you're a man in the world today
and
something doesn't go your way, no one is
there to help you. So speaking of
Democrats, I'm not saying this is right
or wrong. I'm just making an
observation. So if you look at the
during the presidential election, if you
look at the Democratic website for their
the the people they support and the
mission they support, they support
minorities, they support people of
different sexual things, uh
orientations, immigrants, like I'm not
saying that's right or wrong. And then
at the very end they say women.
>> Mhm.
>> They literally listed a bunch of people,
chose a gender, and did not pick men.
>> Mhm.
>> Intentionally,
right? So, so if you're a man today and
you struggle, the most common thing you
hear is you're privileged. You don't
have a right to complain. Especially if
you're, oh my god, like y'all are the
worst. Y'all are white men. At least I'm
a white or my skin is brown, right? I'm
part of the oppressed.
>> Mhm.
And and so what literally like you have
people but like men have the highest
suicide rates and they're climbing. I
you know I I love it. I had a patient I
used to work a lot with people in
finance and I had a patient who had a
kid and she wanted to go back into
investment banking and the bank has a
program for mothers who have left to
raise their kids because like women we
as a society should support women who
make choices and if they make choices
and they want to make career changes or
if they're having difficulty we should
have like equality of like board
representation between men and women we
should help women get into college. We
should have women only scholarships. And
I'm not saying these things are bad. I'm
just saying this is the way society is
right now. There are plenty of women
onlyly scholarships. Very few male only
scholarships. But 60% of people in
college are women.
So if you look at the experience of men,
they don't get help from anybody. If a
man has difficulty with their emotions,
no woman wants to take responsibility.
And fair enough, right? They say like
it's not my job to baby this man. That's
the work that I do to a certain degree.
You do to a certain degree you do. And I
think it's in that order.
>> I think maybe I have the biggest babies,
but who knows, right?
>> And and so like this is the like
literally the experience of men. You can
look at all kinds of metrics. I I just
look at suicide. And a few years ago, I
asked myself a question. If men have it
so easy, why are they killing themselves
at four times the rate of women? Like
why do these men and I've had men in my
office who are privileged 6'4 rich white
men who want to kill themselves,
you know, like have fantasies of tying a
noose around their neck,
tying the other part of the noose to a
tree, getting in a car and slamming on
the gas pedal.
>> So like what is going on? Like like are
they privileged? Yes. And there's more
to the story. Do they have advantages?
Yes. And there's more to the story. But
we live in a society that does not
accept that. So the weird thing is
everyone thinks that Andrew Tate is
super toxic. He's the most validating
voice. He's the most emotionally
validating voice that I've heard talking
to men.
>> Donald Trump, same thing for his
audience. Yeah.
>> Absolutely. Right. So everyone says your
audience, my audience, not sure about
you,
right? So like our audience Charlie is I
mean this isn't true really but like
it's losers right? There are a lot of
quote unquote losers in our audience. So
what we realize is there a lot of young
professionals the average age in our
audience is now like 32. It's like 30 to
35% women. So I'm sort of making a a a
characterization that's not really
accurate.
>> But there are a lot of people dudes out
there who are struggling feel like
losers trying to fix being a loser. And
what does the world tell them? The world
tells them you've got a bunch of
advantages. You're fine. you should and
if you're not fine, you should be fine
because you're a privileged man. There's
one person who tells them they are
and that person is Andrew Tate. Andrew
Tate says, "You are Let me help
you
>> from beta. You're a piece of
>> I'm going to validate your
>> There's a validation and a reality
pacing.
>> You're like, you're right.
>> Yeah, you are.
>> The world the world is unfair. There are
1% of men who get everything and 99% you
are a loser. here's how to
change versus people are like that's not
true love yourself. Exactly.
>> The other thing about their car their
charisma is in both of the cases that
you mentioned is that they they're
really not self-conscious.
>> Yeah. Deeply.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. They're really not
self-conscious.
>> Mhm.
>> Like one of them hugged a flag.
>> You know, like that's like performance
art lack of self-consciousness. That's
like an amazing lack of
self-consciousness. And I think that all
of us want that.
>> All of us want that lack of
self-consciousness on on top of
>> we might not want it in that particular
way, but we all want that on some level.
And it's it's an interesting thing
because I was looking at
>> um who won the election
over the like since Jimmy Carter and I
was just watching different difference
of them speaking. I was like, wow. It's
kind of like almost the person who has
less self-consciousness wins. It's
pretty it's a it's a really good
indicator.
>> The less self-conscious, the more
they're likely to win.
>> They don't have to be smart. They don't
have to even be articulate. It's just
like a lack of I'm going to be me,
>> which is less internal division.
Correct.
>> It is greater sense of internal less
internal division
>> in that particular aspect.
>> Yes. Yes.
>> Right. Because like I do not think that
>> they go home and are non-divided
internally. But you know, I could be
>> I I think they both have a vision. Yes.
>> Right. And I think they're both
articulate
>> like I mean people will say like Trump
stumbles around with his words and stuff
like that but he's able to speak. So
what I mean he'll say all kinds of
things but there are a couple of
statements that will really resonate
with the
>> diad.
>> And then the other really interesting
like metaphoric thing here is we've been
talking about you know if there's
something bad and you try to make it go
away it just comes back stronger.
>> That's right. And these two people have
one really interesting thing. The harder
people try to take them down,
>> the stronger they become,
right? And and so there's something
going on here where that's just not the
energy. They they thrive off of it,
right? That because what what it does is
it galvanizes their supporters. It
creates more of an us versus them kind
of mentality,
>> you know? And and and I think I I know I
mean so we talked with Sneo a while ago
and I I don't know if it was you or
someone on your on your channel.
>> I I did the video. Yeah.
>> Yeah. And and so I think like people
will sometimes blame us for talking to
platforming toxic dudes. My
conversations with like Sneo and Aiden
Ross and some of these like toxic people
are some of my most favorite
conversations. I I know this is going to
get me a lot of flack, but I think
there's like they're good dudes. I think
the way I think your handling of it is
exactly the antidote and is so important
and is so inclusive and does not leave
anyone behind. I I love watching those
conversations.
>> Right. So, so that that like oh like you
shouldn't talk to bad people then like
what do you and I'm not I'm not saying
you shouldn't talk some people say you
shouldn't talk to bad people and then
I'm like well then what should you do,
right? And then people will say you
should cancel them, you should destroy
them and like that's fine. I'm not
saying that that's wrong. It's not my
place to say like if you want to
annihilate whatever like go for it.
That's not what I know how to do.
>> Mhm.
>> That's not my gift to the world. That's
not the methodology that I've seen
works.
>> And so I I I think these are people that
we should be I completely agree with
what Joe is saying about these people
serve a karmic purpose of like
awakening.
>> Mhm.
>> Like if you really have problems with
these people, look within yourself
first.
>> Right. and and see what's your issue.
What are you really angry about?
>> How can you not understand?
Right? So then you're you're like you're
like like I don't understand how people
like even within my family like there's
a huge generational divide between like
Democrats and Republicans and we're like
all like in the same general household
but and and people like I don't
understand
>> and people say that reflexively, right?
like I don't understand how someone
could follow Andrew Tate or vote for
Donald Trump. Then the first
thing you should do is understand.
>> Mhm.
>> Don't judge.
>> Try to really figure out because clearly
they are doing something that matters a
lot to a lot of people. And if you ever
want to change this dynamic, good
diagnosis precedes good treatment. It
starts with understanding. Then you can
figure out what to do. Trying to take
them down may work, may not work. I have
no idea.
But I think that there's something
really like powerful going on. And I
think that like kind of like what Joe is
saying, I know it sounds kind of weird,
but like whether this is good or bad
depends on what we do with it.
>> Yeah, absolutely. I think that it's an
interesting
it's an interesting thought process,
right? If you're if you are in a place
that is harmful to you and you are
seeking help, you're typically not
seeking judgment. You're not seeking
egoic judgment.
We know inherently that if somebody can
show up with us as a human being and be
with us as a human being, that that's
probably one of the most effective ways
for us to heal. And and the the the
thought process that I love around this
is imagine that you go onto an island
and you have all the food and water that
you could ever use in this island and
you're there with 12 people and those 12
people all happen to be saints and
saints they draw boundaries. They they
they take care of themselves but they
unconditionally love you. They love you
unconditionally.
They don't accept everything you do but
they unconditionally love you. And now
imagine you're stuck on that island for
a decade. Like what happens? Who are you
when you walk off that island? So, we
like know this that
>> Yeah. We don't need anyone to coach us
or train us. We just need this thing.
And yet, when we see something out in
the world that we don't like,
>> the very last thing we think to do is
>> behave like a saint.
>> Behave like a saint.
>> Yeah. Beautiful. Would love to continue.
And I want to get you fed. So, thank you
both for sitting down with me today.
>> No food for you.
No soup for you. Um, amazing chatting
with both of you guys today.
>> Yeah, it was an absolute privilege.
>> Oh my gosh. Yeah.
>> Wow, that was fascinating. Thank you,
Joe. Thank you, Dr. K. Thank you,
Charlie. And thank you to everybody
listening. And if you love our show,
we'd love your support by either sharing
it with a friend or rating us in your
podcast app or by subscribing. Joe
Hudson and myself, Brett Kistler, are
the hosts of this show. Mi Kelly is our
producer. And this episode in particular
was edited by Charisma on Command. And I
want to thank their team once again for
all their hard work and for letting us
share it with you on our channel. Thank
you everybody. We'll see you again in
two weeks.